---
title: 'docs: update `README.md` & `SECURITY.md`'
source_url: https://github.com/Cuprate/cuprate/pull/143
author: hinto-janai
assignees: []
labels:
- A-workspace
- A-docs
- P-low
created_at: '2024-05-30T00:57:00+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-06-14T17:36:46+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-06-14T17:33:43+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-06-14T17:33:43+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Re-writes `README.md` and `SECURITY.md`, other examples:
- https://github.com/monero-project/monero
- https://github.com/paradigmxyz/reth
- https://github.com/ZcashFoundation/zebra

Rendered preview: https://github.com/hinto-janai/cuprate/tree/readme

# Discussion History
## hinto-janai | 2024-05-31T00:06:40+00:00
Other project's banners are (relatively) 40%~70%

## hinto-janai | 2024-05-31T00:14:45+00:00
I suggest we decide on a tagline for Cuprate, and that our repo's "About" gets changed to it as well.

Not sure if `alternative` is a good choice for the long-term :)

## hinto-janai | 2024-05-31T00:16:07+00:00
This `README.md` is pretty sparse for now. We could add sections like `Goals` or `Status` but we'd have to update them frequently.

My vote is for just keeping it minimal until we have something working.

## hinto-janai | 2024-05-31T00:29:37+00:00
I think some criteria for this section is:

- Is an active maintainer
- Wrote/understands most of the codebase
- Can respond quickly
- Can accurately respond to and fix disclosures that require deeper crypto knowledge

So pretty much... only Boog :)

## Boog900 | 2024-05-31T00:58:23+00:00
Maybe add here that everything outside of `binaries` is MIT

## Boog900 | 2024-05-31T01:03:26+00:00
I agree with keeping it minimal for now 

## Boog900 | 2024-05-31T01:05:16+00:00
the immediate alternative is just `Rust` although it is a bit boring

## SyntheticBird45 | 2024-05-31T13:25:46+00:00
*An upcoming experimental, modern & secure monero node. Written in Rust* ?

## SyntheticBird45 | 2024-05-31T13:27:28+00:00
It's literally the project description and It's the tagline we used from the beginning

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-01T00:03:17+00:00
I meant the tagline used for all time, i.e.:
- `Monero: the secure, private, untraceable cryptocurrency`.
- `Zcash - Financial Privacy in Rust 🦓`

> modern & secure

Not sure how far we should lean into this aspect (at least in the tagline), especially `secure` since that may imply that `monerod` is not secure.

> Written in Rust

I'm 50/50 on this, although, a lot of other projects include this, `arti`, `reth`, `zebra`.

## SyntheticBird45 | 2024-06-01T08:00:10+00:00
The *secure* originally came from the promised security features, isolation and traffic obfuscation, if this disturb you then what about: *An upcoming experimental, modern and performant Monero node*. no *secure*, we just stick to *modern* since we have a completely different architecture, I don't think its unrealistic to imply that monerod codebase is no more modern, tho it isn't the primary intent of the word.
> I'm 50/50 on this, although, a lot of other projects include this, arti, reth, zebra.

Honestly, I think first thing people wanna know about a rewrite is in which language it has been rewrite to + Rust is a selling point, so definitely have its place in the tagline imo

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-02T19:04:08+00:00
> An upcoming experimental

Tagline for all time (present tense) so it would maybe be `A modern and performant Monero node`, although one day Cuprate will no longer be 'modern and performant', so I'd vote for a tagline that's more of a description that lasts forever like:

- `Arti - An implementation of Tor, in Rust.`
- `Zcash - Financial Privacy in Rust 🦓`

> Honestly, I think first thing people wanna know about a rewrite is in which language it has been rewrite to

I'm okay with/without so up to @Boog900.

## Boog900 | 2024-06-03T00:51:24+00:00
I don't think we actively _need_ to include Rust in the tagline, if it sounds good I don't really care either way.

---

This is when my suggested name change could've come in handy (REXmr), it would've come with a tagline `Rust Enhanced XMR` AND a T-Rex logo :D

Way too late now though but I mean we could still go with `Rust Enhanced XMR` as the tagline. 

# Action History
- Created by: hinto-janai | 2024-05-30T00:57:00+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-06-14T17:33:43+00:00
