---
title: boost serialization replaced by cereal
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1435
author: kenshi84
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2016-12-12T15:35:15+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-01-14T03:01:11+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2016-12-20T15:40:00+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Issue #1430 

It was quite confusing to understand how I should go about this, because there are *three* different kinds of serialization schemes co-existing in the codebase:

- `epee::serialization::kv_serialize(...)`
- `::serializaization::serialize(...)` which is called from `parse_binary` and `dump_binary` in serialization/binary_utils.h
- `boost::serialization::serialize(...)` which is called via `boost::archive::binary_{i|o}archive`

I replaced boost serializer by cereal except for p2p/net_peerlist.h which uses `boost::multi_index` which is not supported by cereal.

I confirmed `cereal::PortableBinary{Input|Output}Archive` to work compatibly across Windows and Mac.

Hope I didn't bring a mess to the codebase :D

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2016-12-14T17:57:50+00:00
I do not think these friend declarations are necessary. Everything in these structs should already be public.

## vtnerd | 2016-12-14T18:01:44+00:00
The prior implementation incorrectly put the functions in the `boost::serialization` namespace. They could/should be in the `crypto` namespace; ADL will find the function from cereal code. And down below the `cryptonote` and `rct` namespaces should be used.

## vtnerd | 2016-12-14T18:24:52+00:00
`cryptonote` namespace.

## vtnerd | 2016-12-14T18:26:07+00:00
`tools::wallet2` namespace.

## vtnerd | 2016-12-14T19:04:32+00:00
The binary formats are not compatible, so what happens when a user with an existing wallet opens the file? A conversion tool or supporting multiple input formats may be needed. Output should be fine (transparent upgrade).

## vtnerd | 2016-12-14T19:29:23+00:00
These formats are unlikely to be compatible.

## kenshi84 | 2016-12-15T06:27:22+00:00
Thank you so much for reviewing, that was helpful!
The revised version handles the old boost format as well.

## vtnerd | 2016-12-15T16:42:59+00:00
I do not understand the logic behind this check. `m_account` does not appear to be loaded from file, did I miss this? And if it was, is the goal to see if the same value differs in another location (i.e. the key is stored twice in the file)?

## kenshi84 | 2016-12-15T22:55:22+00:00
I just copied the same check in the `THROW_WALLET_EXCEPTION_IF` below. This check makes sense to me, as `m_account` is filled in `load_keys(m_keys_file, password)` at line 2279. So it checks if the public wallet address recorded in the wallet cache is consistent with the keys.

# Action History
- Created by: kenshi84 | 2016-12-12T15:35:15+00:00
- Closed at: 2016-12-20T15:40:00+00:00
