---
title: 'epee: optimize uri conversion functions'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10265
author: leezaj
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- epee
created_at: '2025-12-20T02:33:59+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-12-29T17:19:03+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
- greatly reduced # of string allocations (only 1 per function)
- fixed typo in function name (conver -> convert)
- used more standard library functions to simplify manual logic and remove pointer arithmetic
- removed all functions in header that were only used by these 2 functions
- replaced const std::string& with std::string_view

Tested changes with unit tests and functional tests (especially uri.py)

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2025-12-20T21:10:51+00:00
prepend reflects the position of the token, which everyone can plainly see from the encode/decode algorithm; better to reflect its meaning/purpose, e.g. uri_escape_char.

## iamamyth | 2025-12-20T21:15:39+00:00
This lookup method is painfully inefficient. For allocation, you can just assume 3x (always right), or guess a large over-allocation that's nearly always right, like 2x input size. For encoding, you may as well make a 255 entry lookup table for every single char, then you're just doing some copies per char.

## iamamyth | 2025-12-20T21:24:22+00:00
Might be clearer to write this as a positive offset reflecting the extra chars processed, then you could likely drop the comment: `it += hex_byte_len;`

## iamamyth | 2025-12-20T21:31:23+00:00
I don't think any other code uses this syntactic construct (declare + init in control flow), suggest moving it to before the if (also applies to the earlier if).

## iamamyth | 2025-12-21T05:45:37+00:00
I think you're better off with a default-initialized string and then a `reserve` (avoids a pointless memset).

## iamamyth | 2025-12-21T05:46:32+00:00
The approach in the existing code of just appending to the string seems safer and therefore more desirable than using an iterator here (even though there shouldn't be overflows).

## iamamyth | 2025-12-21T06:11:31+00:00
You could just use snprintf to output the value two-wide in uppercase hex.

## iamamyth | 2025-12-21T06:14:08+00:00
To clarify, by appending, I don't necessarily mean `append`, you could use `push_back` to ensure no allocations without overflowing the buffer.

## iamamyth | 2025-12-21T06:19:13+00:00
One thing to note: string doesn't seem to guarantee that writing past `data() + size()` in a reserved string works (see https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/string/basic_string/data.html), so you'll need to resize the string to accommodate the new chars and then call snprintf.

## iamamyth | 2025-12-21T06:20:37+00:00
`decimal` seems an odd name here, as it's not a decimal value; perhaps `decoded` would be better?

## iamamyth | 2025-12-21T06:33:48+00:00
Same thought here about using safe append operations instead of iterator assigns.

## iamamyth | 2025-12-21T07:24:40+00:00
Setting aside the above, I should clarify my earlier comment about using a lookup table: You can have the table do all the work here, including hex conversion. Just make each entry your output, and give them all a fixed width of 2 bytes (for literals which map 1-1, all null). This way, the lookup math is a simple bit shift, and your logic looks like (in pseudocode):
```
if (table_entry[0] != '\0') {
    push_back('%');
    memcpy 2 char entry;
} else {
    out = in
}
```

## iamamyth | 2025-12-21T08:08:53+00:00
The trouble with toupper is that it's locale dependent.

## leezaj | 2025-12-21T11:46:36+00:00
1 thing that needs clarification. I went with constructor deliberately instead of `reserve`. Below is my reasoning.

As mentioned, writing past `.data()` is UB, so with `reserve` we need to either `resize` then copy, or `push_back`.
- Problem with `resize` then copy: If we `resize` to _expand_ the string, it [fills out the contents out with `\0`'s anyway](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/string/basic_string/resize.html), better to do this once with the constructor rather than do it each time. It also has the same 2 downsides listed below.
- Problem with `push_back`: Every push_back does 2 internal checks which are both wasteful:
    1. `push_back` needs to check if size would be greater than capacity to know if reallocation is needed. We know reallocation will never happen, because the size will never be  greater than capacity, because we've reserved the max possible size, and yet this check would still done with each `push_back` unnecessarily.
    2. `push_back` needs to update the size each time we use it.  Why not save instructions and instead just do it once at the end (which is what we do right now) instead of each time we `push_back`?

So I believe the constructor method is more performant. The only disadvantage is that it memsets, which one can't really help <sub>[other than using a complicated function from C++23](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/string/basic_string/resize_and_overwrite)</sub>. Let me know what you think.

## deleted_user | 2025-12-28T05:14:27+00:00
Q: Why were the `?` and `=` removed from unsafe characters? For some reason, it's also being continued in the additions.

## leezaj | 2025-12-28T05:54:24+00:00
Looks like that comment has always been there from the start, [see http_client.h in this commit](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/commit/296ae46ed8f8f6e5f986f978febad302e3df231a)

## deleted_user | 2025-12-28T06:05:32+00:00
Need @iamamyth to chime in here. 
From from the wallet's perspective, if the recipient name or txn description had any `?` or `=`, they wouldn't be encoded since they're not in the list of unsafe characters.

## iamamyth | 2025-12-28T18:21:49+00:00
The goal here is to preserve prior behavior, irrespective of whether said behavior makes sense. Removing the exemptions for `?` and `=` would have to occur in a separate PR (it potentially breaks a lot of things, precisely for whatever reasons gave rise to the exemptions).

## iamamyth | 2025-12-28T21:55:11+00:00
It looks like the behavior could be changed to better conform to standards in a follow-on PR, without introducing any problems.

# Action History
- Created by: leezaj | 2025-12-20T02:33:59+00:00
