---
title: Refactored password prompting for wallets
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1472
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2016-12-18T01:34:45+00:00'
updated_at: '2016-12-22T14:33:59+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2016-12-20T15:47:09+00:00'
merged_at: '2016-12-20T15:47:09+00:00'
---

# Original Description
[Enabling HTTP auth for `monero-wallet-rpc`](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1464/files) has one issue - [requesting confirmation for the password automatically displays a message for wallets](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/wallet/password_container.cpp#L147). So that `password_container` could remain a class for storing passwords:
1. Except for watch-only wallets, all wallet password prompts now call `tools::wallet2::password_prompt` which toggles the same message for new wallets.
2. `tools::password_container` was refactored - instead of a two step construct object then call member function, a single static function was created. Therefore, there is no such thing as an `m_empty` `password_container`. This was done to eliminate confusion when returning a `password_container` object - it is holding a password (which it attempts to wipe from memory) and no member function for retrieving a password needs to be invoked by the caller.
3. `tools::simple_wallet` had the same few lines of code done repeatedly. Since they had to be updated for the interface change, `cryptonote::simple_wallet::get_and_verify_password()` was added

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2016-12-19T22:12:55+00:00
memset_s does this

## vtnerd | 2016-12-19T23:40:44+00:00
`memset_s` is not available on my glibc (2.22) or Ubuntu 16.04. It is an optional part of the C11 standard, and AFAIK is not listed in the C++11 or C++14 standard. I _think_ the only method is attempting to call various platform specific functions that claim to never be optimized away. libsodium has a function which does exactly this, with two fallback strategies.

Apparently `memset_s` exists somewhere if libsodium has detection for it - anybody know the target? Also, a worthwhile read on whether [wiping memory is currently futile in C](http://www.daemonology.net/blog/2014-09-06-zeroing-buffers-is-insufficient.html). Although, I see no harm in making a "best effort" to wipe sensitive memory.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2016-12-18T01:34:45+00:00
- Merged at: 2016-12-20T15:47:09+00:00
