---
title: Sync lock
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1717
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-02-12T18:29:57+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-02-14T19:47:29+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-02-12T21:28:49+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-02-12T21:28:49+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2017-02-12T19:31:43+00:00
This is currently a wrapper for `boost:::recursive_mutex`. The `CRITICAL_SECTION_LOCAL` macro expansion sleeps, then locks the mutex. Since this is ultimately calling the platform lock code (and not a user-space spin lock), I cannot see the advantage to using it. Can  this be made a `boost::recursive_mutex` or `boost::mutex` with a corresponding `boost::lock_guard` ? Is there any advantage to the `epee` code here?

## vtnerd | 2017-02-12T21:37:20+00:00
Should the pause mining call be moved into the mutex? The problem is that one connection will unpause it, release the lock, then the other connection no longer pauses it again. Or is that not important?

## vtnerd | 2017-02-12T21:38:10+00:00
Should the check above be `count == arg.blocks.size()` ? The current behavior is a bit odd, if the second block is in the core it skips everything below ...

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-12T23:16:34+00:00
I used this because the rest of the code uses this. Though I did not know about the sleep. This strikes me a bit wtf, but I guess I'll go look at the code later to see what this is about.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-12T23:16:53+00:00
I was puzzled by this. I do not understand that code.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-12T23:18:55+00:00
Quite possibly. The pause/unpause uses a counter AFAIK, so it's resistant to "random" ordering from multiple threads, if that's what you were saying. I'll check it out soon.

## vtnerd | 2017-02-13T17:55:38+00:00
The comment that was added with this block of code:

> to avoid concurrency in core between connections, suspend connections which delivered block later then first one

So if the comment is accurate, the goal was similar to that of this patch. I _think_ the core is only checked once to avoid locking. It would be nice to know why `count == 2` was chosen as the filtering criteria.

Unfortunately it seems that your level of confidence in changing this portion of the code is low - definitely can't fault you here. Moving this to `if (empty() || m_core.have_block(arg.blocks.back()) return;` before the loop seems like it would be a nice bump in quickly filtering duplicate information, so just something for everyone to keep in mind.



## vtnerd | 2017-02-13T19:07:21+00:00
Ok, consistency was my only guess.

The [commit that added the sleep](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/commit/ae2a50659f7dc74a5446a0dc3a5f8f78563b9e1f). Based on the information in that commit, it appears the sleep was for debugging purposes. Since the codebase has not consistently used epee locking, the runtime option is not consistently applying the sleep. Luckily when default of zero is used, `boost::thread` will return immediately. But it forces a read from static memory before returning.

Have you (or @hyc @luigi1111 @tewinget @iamsmooth @anonimal et all ) ever debugged multi-threaded code in this manner? Maybe the original author needs to be contacted. I am trying to think of situation this would help - maybe if there was some racy code after the lock was released? But then every thread is forced to sleep the same amount of time, so ... ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-13T23:29:47+00:00
Yes, this code is meant to do this, but does not do it well. Given the large amount of time that prepare_handle_incoming_blocks takes, it is very likely that all sync threads will go through that first loop, and all see that the second block is not in the blockchain (since the first thread to get the 200 set will likely be stuck in prepare_handle_incoming_blocks by that time). So nothing will be skipped. This is why I put a lock, so prepare_handle_incoming_blocks and adding blocks are done as one, so no secondary syncing thread starts prepare_handle_incoming_blocks needlessly. I'm guessing count==2 is because it "worked better", but I can't see why. Earlying out earlier would solve nothing, due to that large amount of time between receiving and the blockchain getting updated. You'd need some inter thread comms to ask "what do you have ready to add", and that's too complex compared to the lock + dismiss.

## vtnerd | 2017-02-14T19:47:29+00:00
I was clearly hoping that there was a quick way for a thread to return without having to wait for the lock. But if it passes the `.back()` check I proposed, then there is a good chance it will not have to wait at the lock (because the other thread has finished updating). The only beneficial scenario for an unlocked `.back()` check seems to be if 2 responses arrive after a prior response previously updated the same blocks. Both threads could return immediately instead of one having to wait for the other to do its redundancy checks. But even then, the expected wait should be short.

Have you considered removing this check entirely? This is an additional synchronization point that can be removed (assuming we both understand this block of code correctly).

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-12T18:29:57+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-02-12T21:28:49+00:00
