---
title: add LegacyEnoteOriginContext
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/16
author: SNeedlewoods
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2023-12-05T17:56:30+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-04-24T16:50:49+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2024-03-23T20:15:03+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
The changes quickly added up to get around compiler errors. Now it builds fine, but fails at unit_tests `seraphis_enote_scanning.trivial_ledger`. Before I go too deep in the complete wrong direction, some feedback would be appreciated.
I added comments with `QUESTION` and `TODO` (without a well defined distinction), for things I currently focus on.

_____________________________________
Edit after squash:
this PR adds:
- `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV1` for pre-RingCT enotes which get indexed by `enote_same_amount_ledger_index`
- `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV2` for post-RingCT enotes which get indexed by `rct_enote_ledger_index`
- `LegacyEnoteOriginContextVariant` which contains either V1 or V2 contexts
-  a bool `is_pre_rct` to `LegacyEnoteV1` to help differentiate between V1 and V2 contexts
-  function to create pre-RingCT `LegacyEnoteV1`
- some *_ref functions
- constructors for LegacyContextual(Intermediate)EnoteRecords to set the `LegacyEnoteOriginContextVariant` to the correct type or to default type post-RingCT
- functionality for the new indexes in the scanner and mock ledger
- tests in `seraphis_enote_scanning`: `legacy_pre_rct_1` & `legacy_coinbase_1`

Feel free to review.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2023-12-05T19:05:52+00:00
Returning a reference to local variable will cause segfaults or other undefined behavior. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4643713/returning-a-reference-to-a-local-variable-in-c

## j-berman | 2023-12-08T01:50:10+00:00
I think `enote_ledger_index` is ok to leave for now. This would only need to be removed if/when support for spending all of {pre-RingCT, coinbase, RingCT} outputs in the same ring is removed from the Seraphis lib

## j-berman | 2023-12-08T01:50:45+00:00
I like the more descriptive name. Even more descriptive could be `enote_same_amount_ledger_index` :) I tend to err on the side of more descriptive.

## j-berman | 2023-12-08T01:55:59+00:00
In line with my other comment, I actually think we can keep `total_enotes_before_tx` in there for now (until support for spending all enote types in the same ring is removed). But I **do** think we need to add something here that captures the `enote_amount_index` (or whatever you end up calling it). 

## j-berman | 2023-12-08T02:06:58+00:00
Looks good to me (I get the question, could go either way)

## j-berman | 2023-12-08T02:37:38+00:00
Might be missing something -- is this definitely returning a reference to a local variable? `visitor` isn't returned (in case that's what you were pointing out), it's passed into `visit()`, which returns a reference to a member of the higher scoped `variant`

## j-berman | 2023-12-08T02:44:09+00:00
I need to give it a deeper pass, but it seems like a solid approach to me so far

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-08T02:49:57+00:00
The `operator()()` visitor member functions are constructing `EnoteOriginContextVariant` (a `tools::variant<...>`) from a `const` reference to `SpEnoteOriginContextV1` and `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV1`. Then the member functions are returning a `const` reference to that locally constructed variant. 

## j-berman | 2023-12-08T03:14:56+00:00
Ah, I see. You're right. Just noticed this is the compiler warning highlighted in the other part of the PR too.

Maybe the simplest solution is:

```
void origin_context_ref(const ContextualBasicRecordVariant &variant, EnoteOriginContextVariant &origin_context_out)
```

## SNeedlewoods | 2023-12-08T14:51:40+00:00
I should've checked here before adding another commit.
Will try your suggested change to `origin_context_ref` next, thank you.

## UkoeHB | 2024-01-14T06:13:41+00:00
```suggestion
        ++m_legacy_amount_counts[amount];
```
For consistency I prefer to pre-increment, since post-incrementing is sometimes less efficient (e.g. iterators).

## UkoeHB | 2024-01-14T06:14:44+00:00
```suggestion
            if (new_index < m_first_seraphis_only_block)
```
This `new_index` is available in several places already.

## UkoeHB | 2024-01-14T06:16:15+00:00
```suggestion
    // 2. decrement m_legacy_amount_counts for all (pre seraphis_only) blocks that get popped
```

Stylistic consistency (apply where appropriate)

## UkoeHB | 2024-01-14T06:19:51+00:00
`LegacyEnoteV1` is also pre-ringct. Can you explain why an extra type is needed? The struct contents are the same and all the handling code is the same.

## j-berman | 2024-01-14T10:01:18+00:00
Adding a new type here was my suggestion. There needs to be a solution in place in order to handle the following caveat:

All post-RingCT enotes (including post-RingCT coinbase enotes) should use and increment `m_legacy_amount_counts[0]`, whereas all pre-RingCT enotes (including pre-RingCT coinbase enotes) should use and increment `m_legacy_amount_counts[amount]` for the `enote_same_amount_index`. Further, the scanner should capture enough data such that a wallet can construct txs with pre-RingCT enotes in rings composed of pre-RingCT enotes alone (and so it needs to know if an enote is pre-RingCT or post-RingCT).

Because the legacy enote v1 enote type can either be pre-RingCT or a post-RingCT coinbase enote, the v1 type alone doesn't capture enough information such that the scanner can increment the `m_legacy_amount_counts` correctly, nor enough to know to use the enote to construct a pre-RingCT ring with just pre-RingCT enotes (and use the correct index).

Using a distinct enote type for pre-RingCT can enable that.

Looking at the code again, another solution could be a `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV1` for pre-RingCT enotes and `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV2` for post-RingCT. The `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV1` could implement the `enote_same_amount_ledger_index`, and the `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV2` could have a `rct_enote_ledger_index` instead (since coinbase amounts technically aren't the "same amount").

## UkoeHB | 2024-01-14T17:35:15+00:00
> Looking at the code again, another solution could be a LegacyEnoteOriginContextV1 for pre-RingCT enotes and LegacyEnoteOriginContextV2 for post-RingCT. The LegacyEnoteOriginContextV1 could implement the enote_same_amount_ledger_index, and the LegacyEnoteOriginContextV2 could have a rct_enote_ledger_index instead (since coinbase amounts technically aren't the "same amount").

Yes I would do something like this instead. Multi-versioned structs are purely for structural changes.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-01-14T20:17:33+00:00
Thank you both, already worked on some of the suggestions and will look into adding `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV2` tomorrow. Just thinking, maybe it's a less invasive change to add `rct_enote_ledger_index` to `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV1`!?

## UkoeHB | 2024-01-14T20:33:51+00:00
> Just thinking, maybe it's a less invasive change to add rct_enote_ledger_index to LegacyEnoteOriginContextV1

I try as much as possible to avoid overloading structs (hence all the struct versioning + variants).

## jeffro256 | 2024-04-24T16:15:35+00:00
> Adding a new type here was my suggestion. There needs to be a solution in place in order to handle the following caveat:
> 
> All post-RingCT enotes (including post-RingCT coinbase enotes) should use and increment `m_legacy_amount_counts[0]`, whereas all pre-RingCT enotes (including pre-RingCT coinbase enotes) should use and increment `m_legacy_amount_counts[amount]` for the `enote_same_amount_index`. Further, the scanner should capture enough data such that a wallet can construct txs with pre-RingCT enotes in rings composed of pre-RingCT enotes alone (and so it needs to know if an enote is pre-RingCT or post-RingCT).
> 
> Because the legacy enote v1 enote type can either be pre-RingCT or a post-RingCT coinbase enote, the v1 type alone doesn't capture enough information such that the scanner can increment the `m_legacy_amount_counts` correctly, nor enough to know to use the enote to construct a pre-RingCT ring with just pre-RingCT enotes (and use the correct index).
> 
> Using a distinct enote type for pre-RingCT can enable that.
> 
> Looking at the code again, another solution could be a `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV1` for pre-RingCT enotes and `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV2` for post-RingCT. The `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV1` could implement the `enote_same_amount_ledger_index`, and the `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV2` could have a `rct_enote_ledger_index` instead (since coinbase amounts technically aren't the "same amount").

What can also capture all information needed without a separation of `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV1` and `LegacyEnoteOriginContextV2` is to include the ledger indexing amount. 

## j-berman | 2024-04-24T16:33:34+00:00
The ledger indexing amount approach still needs a solution for this here: https://github.com/UkoeHB/monero/pull/42#discussion_r1571826028

But generally it does seem it's a cleaner approach comparing the 2 PR's

## jeffro256 | 2024-04-24T16:36:08+00:00
Yes. This is why I want to merge these two PR's: it'll make both simpler. We can just have one `LegacyEnoteOriginContext` with a simpler structure, and CLSAGs are based on actually used indexing. 

## j-berman | 2024-04-24T16:43:54+00:00
So you're saying merge your PR first, then @SNeedlewoods changes their PR to use the single `LegacyEnoteOriginContext` + `ledger_indexing_amount` and fix (v1 and) v4 enote handling in that spot of the PR?

## j-berman | 2024-04-24T16:50:49+00:00
Ah, I just read your comments in no-wallet-left-behind proposing you'll combine the 2 PR's, nice :) thank you

# Action History
- Created by: SNeedlewoods | 2023-12-05T17:56:30+00:00
- Closed at: 2024-03-23T20:15:03+00:00
