---
title: remove cached password from Wallet API (master)
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10232
author: SNeedlewoods
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- wallet
created_at: '2025-11-24T17:02:13+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-02-19T17:52:40+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Based on https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9464

https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9915 is the old release version of this PR, I plan to update later

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2025-11-25T17:35:10+00:00
This seems to imply an intermittent or recoverable failure; suggest something like: `Saving the wallet to a new path requires a password.`

## vtnerd | 2026-01-02T18:08:42+00:00
These `std::string`s are hex or binary? Might want to add a comment about that.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-02T18:09:50+00:00
How does the backend encrypt the transaction? This should require that the backend cache the password ?

## vtnerd | 2026-01-02T18:12:15+00:00
Why have `vinSizes()`, `vinOffsets()`, `vinKeyImages()`, and `vinAmounts()` when this information should be attainable through `getEnoteDetailsIn()`?

## vtnerd | 2026-01-02T18:15:11+00:00
Why not call declare this a `enum class TxState`? If you don't need conversion to int, the class declaration is preferred.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:33:01+00:00
I would make all of these `enum class` as well.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:35:10+00:00
I would switch this to `std::string_view` for both `old_password` and `new_password` since we are on C++17 for this target branch. It's still fairly simple for any client to conform - its just `setPassword({old, old_len}, {new, new_len})`, etc.

And if using `std::string` its just `setPassword(old, new)`.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:37:15+00:00
`optional<std::string_view>`, which I assume is meant to differentiate from a blank password and no password.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:39:14+00:00
I think it would be helpful to describe what some of these parameters do, as it's non-obvious. A good example is `try_incremental`.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:40:03+00:00
What does `do_hard_rescan` toggle?

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:40:40+00:00
Another good candidate for `std::string_view`, and two more in this file.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:43:39+00:00
This function complicates the interface - it's not clear when it's supposed to be invoked. If anything this suggests that the backend should be caching the password to make things simpler. This should probably a `std::unique_ptr<WalletKeysDecryptGuard>` too. 

Also, does this implementation handle lifetimes properly? My lwsf implementation likely can handle this because it has a "backend" that uses `std::shared_ptr` and `WalletKeysDecryptGuard` can used that `shared_ptr`. However, the primary implementation to this interface doesn't have such a design, so it seems like dangling pointers could easily result if this guard exceeds the lifetime of a `Wallet` object.

And this is another candidate for `std::string_view`.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:48:10+00:00
Just return the `std::unique_ptr` and return `nullptr` if failed.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:49:03+00:00
I would return this single value instead of out parameter, unless the objective is to re-use `std::vector` memory (reduce allocations). This seems unlikely.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:49:30+00:00
Another candidate for `std::string_view`.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:49:56+00:00
`std::string_view` here too.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:51:17+00:00
Why `bool` return with out parameter here, but not in above method? The consistent interface would be to just return the `PendingTransaction*` as thats the existing style.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:53:56+00:00
Reading the comments suggest this return value should be `std::vector<std::pair<std::string, std::string>>`.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:56:41+00:00
What is this doing? Is it just storing `binary` to a `path_to_file`? This doesn't seem like it should be included? Or a better description needs to be provided.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:57:26+00:00
Same thing with this, why include it with this interface? Just use `std::ofstream` ?

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T02:58:10+00:00
What does this function do? It takes one `enote_idx` but returns number of hashed notes? Isn't that one? Or ?

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T03:00:31+00:00
No clue what this one does.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T03:02:51+00:00
This (`ssl_support`) really needs to be an `enum`.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T03:04:18+00:00
I think this should be merged into the existing `init` function; this function is duplicating that.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T03:05:16+00:00
Using `string_view` for several more functions here (at least 3).

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T03:07:47+00:00
is interface is tough, its not clear what functionality is no longer possible after being invoked. As an example, it should be impossible to find _real_ spends with legacy keys until `decryptKeys` is invoked. But the documentation doesn't list any lost functionality.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T03:09:19+00:00
What does this flag toggle though? The description describes who uses, but not what it does.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T03:12:58+00:00
Can wallets like, not use this? As in, is it possible to still use this API without using listeners or implementing this function at all?

The problem is that a major wallet (Cake) is using `monero_c`, and so is a new wallet (Skylight). Those projects are **not** using listeners because it's a royal pain to integrate C++ listeners to C callbacks. I've thought of a few ways to get it working, and every solution is a bit gross. If the design basically _requires_ listeners, then it's going to create downstream problems.

Also the `const char*` should probably be a `std::string` or possible a `std::string_view`.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T03:27:19+00:00
Again, just return the `std::unique_ptr`.

## vtnerd | 2026-01-03T03:29:06+00:00
Another `std::string_view`.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T15:37:13+00:00
I moved the comments from `EnoteDetails.h` [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9464/files#diff-3f8942a1c7ee742ca768a6e27d37d149334c96419180640a0ac07b15e5650532R70-R112) and added more information. I think it's sufficient to have these comments in `wallet2_api.h` only, so there is no risk to get out of sync with the comments in `EnoteDetails.h`.
And if anyone has suggestions to improve the comments, I'm open to change them.


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T15:37:25+00:00
After thinking about it a little more, I could get rid of `vinSizes()` and `vinKeyImages()`, but I think we need a way to get `vinOffsets()` and `vinAmounts()`. Together they form `{amount, amount_index}` (so for txs that were created with `TxProtocol_RingCT` these `vinAmounts()` are set to `0`, only for `TxProtocol_CryptoNote` they show the actual enote amount AFAIK) for all the decoys and the real spends that were used to create the tx, currently `EnoteDetails` is only used for real spends, I would say decoys belong to a different category like maybe "ring member details".

Maybe it would be a more clean approach to add `struct RingMemberDetails` for all the information from `vinAmounts()`, `vinOffests()` and `constructionDataRealOutputIndices()`, then we would end up with two methods (`getEnoteDetailsIn()`, `getRingMemberDetails()`) and a struct (`RingMemberDetails`) instead of four methods (`getEnoteDetailsIn()`, `vinAmounts()`, `vinOffsets()` and `constructionDataRealOutputIndices()`).

BTW the `vin*()` methods are currently only used in simplewallet `process_ring_members()` which gets called only if you have the following setting `set print-ring-members 1` when creating a transaction.
Note: information from `vinSizes()[tx_idx]` is indirectly present through `getEnoteDetailsIn()[tx_idx].size()`


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T15:37:30+00:00
This part was first developed on `release-v0.18` branch with the intention to be used by the GUI. ([here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9915#discussion_r2064388854) is the discussion from the PR, though that PR is terribly outdated. I currently plan to work on PRs for the release branch once the related master branch PRs are reviewed.)
    So just to keep that in mind. Will change this to `string_view` on this branch, if you think it's worth it?

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T15:37:36+00:00
Correct

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T15:37:42+00:00
Added comments, but not sure they are accurate or understandable, suggestions to improve them are welcome.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T15:37:48+00:00
Added comments.


Thinking about it, maybe it's cleaner to add another `enum class RescanType { RescanType_Soft, RescanType_Hard, RescanType_SoftKeepKI };` instead of the two bools `do_hard_rescan` and `do_keep_key_images` which cause an error if you set both of them to `true`.


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T15:38:02+00:00
Maybe even `std::unique_ptr<PendingTransaction>`? The new `getEnoteDetails()` methods also return `unique_ptr`.


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T15:38:15+00:00
Copied from [wallet2.h](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/4286fbe6cd6cdeeb2c1d13c52a912bdfc55c3f5c/src/wallet/wallet2.h#L1576-L1580) ([src to implementation](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/4286fbe6cd6cdeeb2c1d13c52a912bdfc55c3f5c/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L12942-L12960)).
I tried to improve the comment instead of messing with the return type.


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T15:38:18+00:00
> This doesn't seem like it should be included?

I think you're right, removed `saveToFile()` and `loadFromFile()`.


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T15:38:28+00:00
Added more information to the comments.

`hashEnotes()` and `finishRescanBcKeepKeyImages()` are only needed in `simple_wallet::refresh_main()` if you do a soft rescan ([src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/4286fbe6cd6cdeeb2c1d13c52a912bdfc55c3f5c/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L5725-L5759))
I tried to improve the comments, don't think we want to get rid of the functionality, though it's much complexity for a niche feature. Will think about this some more.


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T15:38:42+00:00
I remember considering that when I wrote `setDaemon()` but don't remember exactly why I decided against it, one reason: it's less obvious that you have to call `init()` to set a daemon, but I think it also had something to do with ssl options.
Will look into it again and merge if I can't find a good reason to keep it.

_________________________________________________________________________________
Edit:
`WalletImpl::init()` [calls](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d0d418483514d3caf79547e302937e45878eab21/src/wallet/api/wallet.cpp#L969) `WalletImpl::doInit()` [calls](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d0d418483514d3caf79547e302937e45878eab21/src/wallet/api/wallet.cpp#L2509) `wallet2::init()` [calls](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d0d418483514d3caf79547e302937e45878eab21/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L1414) `wallet2::set_daemon()`,
but through that route we lose control over SSL options for `wallet2::set_daemon()`. We always end up with the default setting "autodetect" [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d0d418483514d3caf79547e302937e45878eab21/src/wallet/wallet2.h#L1081).
Even though `WalletImpl::init()` does have a param `bool use_ssl`, which gets passed to `WalletImpl::doInit()`, there it ends up being unused.
Another minor detail: `WalletImpl::doInit()` sets the daemon to "untrusted" if it's not local ([src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d0d418483514d3caf79547e302937e45878eab21/src/wallet/api/wallet.cpp#L2522-L2528)).

So I think I would need to add the following params to `WalletImpl::init()` & `WalletImpl::doInit()`
```
bool trusted_daemon /* = false */,
Wallet::SSLSupport ssl_support /* = Wallet::SSLSupport::SSLSupport_Autodetect */,
const std::string &ssl_private_key_path /* = "" */,
const std::string &ssl_certificate_path /* = "" */,
const std::string &ssl_ca_file_path /* = "" */,
const std::vector<std::string> &ssl_allowed_fingerprints_str /* = {} */,
bool ssl_allow_any_cert /* = false */,
```
and then we also could remove unused `bool use_ssl`/`bool ssl`.

Seems there is no blocking reason not to merge, but I still tend to prefer having the `WalletImpl::setDaemon()` method, and leave the `doInit()`/`init()` methods as they are.
Though I'll change it if someone insists.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T15:44:28+00:00
Before when using the Wallet API, `m_unattended` was always set `true` in the `wallet2` backend ([src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/4286fbe6cd6cdeeb2c1d13c52a912bdfc55c3f5c/src/wallet/api/wallet.cpp#L438), the third argument).
This setting enabled causes the keys to be stored in memory unencrypted and you don't need to take care of `WalletKeysDecryptGuard`, `en-/decryptKeys()` and `onGetPassword()`.

AFAICT the new API needs to support encrypted keys for the CLI which has `m_unattended = false` ([src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/4286fbe6cd6cdeeb2c1d13c52a912bdfc55c3f5c/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L4779), the second argument).

TLDR: with this flag you can
1. keep to use the Wallet API with `unattended = true` and nothing should change.
2. now set `unattended = false` and then have to take care of de- encrypting keys

This is a complex topic, could be mistaken here, I'm open to feedback.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-08T16:00:57+00:00
Both methods are only needed when wallet setting `unattended = false` and they're called only once in simplewallet when changing `set ask-password` [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/4286fbe6cd6cdeeb2c1d13c52a912bdfc55c3f5c/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L2545-L2548).


## iamamyth | 2026-01-09T00:16:32+00:00
Regarding the unattended flag, I note the following incantation pretty much everywhere:
```
m_ask_password == AskPasswordToDecrypt && !m_unattended && !m_watch_only
```

I wonder whether this rote repetition hides a dubious, potentially inconsistent domain model: watch_only makes sense as a flag, no problem there. But, does it ever make sense to have an "attended", watch-only wallet? And, more to the point, what does it mean for an "unattended" wallet to ask for passwords versus not? Something seems off here.

## jeffro256 | 2026-01-12T19:51:07+00:00
> This function complicates the interface - it's not clear when it's supposed to be invoked.

Would adding a more detailed doc fix this?

> If anything this suggests that the backend should be caching the password to make things simpler.

I mean, yeah, that's basically what `wallet_keys_unlocker` does, except that the password is converted into a Chacha key.

> This should probably a `std::unique_ptr<WalletKeysDecryptGuard>` too.

Agreed.

> Also, does this implementation handle lifetimes properly?

Nope, AFAIK, `wallet_keys_unlocker` does not, but that's a change separate from this PR IMO.



## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-16T20:31:36+00:00
I'm not sure I understand, but I think `convertTxToRawBlobStr()` does not encrypt the tx (uses `cryptonote::tx_to_blob()` [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d0d418483514d3caf79547e302937e45878eab21/src/cryptonote_basic/cryptonote_format_utils.cpp#L1572-L1580)).
Though `convertTxToStr()` does encrypt the tx with the view key (uses `wallet2::dump_tx_to_str()` [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d0d418483514d3caf79547e302937e45878eab21/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L7698)).

Another thing I just noticed, some strings I called "hex strings" in the comments are actually "octal escape sequence strings".
IMO it makes sense to keep this string representation, but update the comments, because e.g. in current `simple_wallet::export_raw_multisig()` the tx gets stored as octal escape sequence string, coming from `cryptonote::tx_to_blob()` ([src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d0d418483514d3caf79547e302937e45878eab21/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L1716)).
Whereas in `simple_wallet::commit_or_save()` the tx is stored as hex [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d0d418483514d3caf79547e302937e45878eab21/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L10390) and we can easily get the hex string by calling `epee::string_tools::buff_to_hex_nodelimer(octal_escape_sequence_str)`.

And I tried to improve the comments in general.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-16T20:32:22+00:00
I'm afraid my answer will just add noise, so maybe someone can help identify if something has to change in regards to the `unattended` setting.

> But, does it ever make sense to have an "attended", watch-only wallet?

AFAICT these are the possible combinations of settings and the resulting states for the keys in memory
svk = secret view key
ssk = secret spend key
|ask_password_type|unattended|watch-only|svk|ssk|
|-|-|-|-|-|
|never/action/decrypt|true/false|true|decrypted|-|
|never/action/decrypt|true|false|decrypted|decrypted|
|never/action|false|false|decrypted|decrypted|
|decrypt|false|false|decrypted|encrypted|

So for a `watch-only` wallet it doesn't matter if "attended" or not, there will be no `ssk` in memory.

> And, more to the point, what does it mean for an "unattended" wallet to ask for passwords versus not?

An "unattended" wallet will only *need* a password for few things, e.g. to open the wallet, then the keys are stored in memory unencrypted, so no more password is needed for sending/receiving XMR, but you *can* call `verifyPassword()` as protection for some actions.


## vtnerd | 2026-02-19T16:54:59+00:00
The name `init` makes it seem mandatory, whereas `setDaemon` seems optional.

Is it still basically required that `init` be called? Can `setDaemon` be omitted, and only invoked if more advanced options are required?

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-02-19T17:52:39+00:00
Yes, `init()` is mandatory and `setDaemon()` is optional with more advanced options.

In #10233 for the initialization of a wallet object in simplewallet I called both methods [src](https://github.com/SNeedlewoods/seraphis_wallet/blob/81916e7c8de528e91757b51df22a4ae5ea414ea3/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L5016-L5034) (there the settings come from command line flags).

`setDaemon()` was also meant to be used if the wallet is already initialized, e.g. the wallet-rpc `set_daemon` uses all the options [doc](https://docs.getmonero.org/rpc-library/wallet-rpc/#set_daemon).

# Action History
- Created by: SNeedlewoods | 2025-11-24T17:02:13+00:00
