---
title: adding thread_group for managing async tasks
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1291
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2016-11-02T23:57:45+00:00'
updated_at: '2016-11-26T02:53:35+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2016-11-08T20:38:03+00:00'
merged_at: '2016-11-08T20:38:03+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Looking for general feedback (tests need to be written, etc., before merging)...

This was from a [discussion in a prior pull request](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1272). This does not use `asio::io_service` because it is a bit clunky to wait for all threads to complete `io::service::run()` (to guarantee that all handlers have completed), then restart the `io::service::run()` to re-use the threads - busy spin loops or condition variables would be needed which makes the implementation look similar to this. I added the thread re-use "feature" because one of the functions in `rctSigs.cpp` created two different `thread_group` objects, mainly so that the dispatched functions were guaranteed to complete before moving to the next section. Arguably, `std::future` should be used instead - retrieving values would be sequenced specifically with the associated tasks, which would require some additional allocations for the shared_state inside of `std::future` (and thus be some amount slower). Or maybe the `thread_group` should be a "one shot" like it is currently (i.e. cannot re-use threads after synchronization). So the obvious choices are: (1) no change, (2) this, (3) this style with `asio::io_service` and thread joining after each group of tasks, or (4) this style with `asio::io_service` and `std::future` for blocking after each group of tasks.

This can be used by blockchain.cpp and wallet2.cpp which requires similar changes. Also:
- No valgrind errors or leaks
- The class automatically ensures that threads join on destruction
- Its easy to block until all functions complete without introducing a bug
- The current thread can block until all work has completed without `join`ing the thread, allowing for thread-reuse (see `rctSigs.cpp`)
- The execution times of the tests are really close before and after the patch on my VM.

Disadvantages:
- Using `asio::io_service` would allow for running I/O events on the same threads (I didn't see any obvious place where a refactor would allow this).
- `asio::io_service` would have less hand-rolled stuff

# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2016-11-02T23:57:45+00:00
- Merged at: 2016-11-08T20:38:03+00:00
