---
title: 'wallet: more robust reorg handling for multisig info messages'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10077
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- wallet
created_at: '2025-09-11T09:21:31+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-09-25T16:39:30+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Partially fixes an issue where reorgs cause multisig info messages to be dropped. This triggers the `multisig_export_needed` exception when attempting to sign multisig transaction sets. This commit accomplishes this by making the `m_multisig_rescan_info` and `m_multisig_rescan_k`: A) structured by output pubkey instead of by index into `m_transfers`, and B) persistent across multiple calls to `refresh()`. So if a received enote is temporarily reorged out of the chain (e.g. when Qubic mines an empty block on a selfish fork), the multisig info originally attached to that enote can be recovered after an arbitrary number of refreshes (as long as the wallet is not closed). Hopefully this improves the UX of Monero multisig apps by requiring fewer round trips to participants during sync and signing.

Potential (not implemented in this commit) improvements which require greater changes to the wallet:
* Save `m_multisig_rescan_info` and `m_multisig_rescan_k` in the wallet cache so that this fix works even when the wallet is closed between refreshes. This is a backwards-incompatible change to the wallet cache file format.
* Have the multisig info messages index partial key images and L-R values by its associated output pubkey, not its index into its local copy of `m_transfers`. This is a backwards-incompatible change to the multisig messaging protocol.

Further tests incoming.

# Discussion History
## j-berman | 2025-09-22T22:39:21+00:00
Why allow proceeding?

## j-berman | 2025-09-22T22:53:47+00:00
This if statement could be implemented in a new function to avoid duplicating the logic here and in `scan_output`

## j-berman | 2025-09-22T23:01:19+00:00
Should it re-throw the exception?

## j-berman | 2025-09-22T23:36:54+00:00
Under what circumstance would the wallet have rescan info for the output but not rescan k?

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-25T13:18:09+00:00
Because it is simply a best attempt, but refreshing doesn't necessarily guarantee the the imported outputs from peers are guaranteed to "line up" with your current refresh state. We don't lose information in `m_multisig_rescan_{k,info}` when populating them anymore, besides to overwrite stale data, so the refresh doesn't *need* to work to not lose information. 

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2025-09-11T09:21:31+00:00
