---
title: Build wallet with Android NDK
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1510
author: MoroccanMalinois
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2016-12-28T05:20:32+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-01-12T03:15:52+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-01-09T00:40:09+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-01-09T00:40:09+00:00'
---

# Original Description
With clang and libc++, libwallet_merged and monero-wallet-cli builds and seems to works fine.
It still fails to build the daemon : something wrong about libblocks - format not recognized
I don't really understand what's being done at the first place :) 

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2016-12-28T12:01:24+00:00
It's a static binary, but built with position inpependant code ? Might well be right, but it seems surprising at first glance so I'm pointing it out to make sure this is right.

## moneromooo-monero | 2016-12-28T12:04:07+00:00
Looks like there can be missing cases in theory. If it's certain that at least one of them will exist, it's fine, otherwise you need to define the fallback below.

## moneromooo-monero | 2016-12-28T12:08:27+00:00
This does a large malloc/free at every call, which might not be good for memory churn and caching. I think it would gain from being done in slow_hash_allocate_state etc.

## MoroccanMalinois | 2016-12-30T06:58:10+00:00
TBH, i don't understand PIC/PIE.
> only` position independent executables (PIE) are supported

is the message i got when i tried to execute it  whitout PIE
this [doc page](https://developer.android.com/ndk/guides/cmake.html) and [this SE](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/30498776/position-independent-executables-and-android-lollipop/) made me add it
this seems to only be mandatory from android 5 and won't work with android < 4.1, so we may want to add a variable for the android api level and check it, but i don't think it's worth it to support prior versions

## MoroccanMalinois | 2016-12-30T07:13:54+00:00
OK. I'm investigating (doesn't look as trivial as the modif i made so far :) so it might take some days before i comment back)

## moneromooo-monero | 2016-12-30T10:27:38+00:00
Fair enough, if it works, I think it's fine :)

## MoroccanMalinois | 2017-01-05T01:26:40+00:00
From what i see, there is no loop calling cn_slow_hash in the wallet and i don't think that this define will be necessary for the daemon, since a better fix would be to set stack size during the thread creation, and the cli works fine without

## vtnerd | 2017-01-05T20:39:52+00:00
Can you use `unique_ptr` then? No need for the second `#ifndef` below, and do not have to be concerned about throwing functions in here.. Make sure to not mix `new`/`free` or `new[]`/`delete`. Easiest is to do `unique_ptr<char[]> block{new char[MEMORY]}`.

## MoroccanMalinois | 2017-01-06T03:09:44+00:00
I don't know if it's a good idea to add c++ code in .c file. Anyway, i tried and std::unique_ptr is not defined (tried to add include memory but file not found)

## vtnerd | 2017-01-07T01:59:24+00:00
Ahh I missed that this was a C file.

# Action History
- Created by: MoroccanMalinois | 2016-12-28T05:20:32+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-01-09T00:40:09+00:00
