---
title: replace wallet2 with Wallet API in simplewallet
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10233
author: SNeedlewoods
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- wallet
created_at: '2025-11-24T17:03:15+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-02-19T16:25:29+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
For some context, this change was proposed a while ago by @j-berman in Step 2 [here](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/wallet3/issues/64).

This PR is based on https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10232 which is based on https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9464

## Possible improvements:

Instead of implementing every idea, which would delay this PR even more, I added this list of things, so we can decide together what should be
a) added to this PR
b) a separate PR
c) not worth to get PRed

- Add option to change the description of an address book entry ([context](https://libera.monerologs.net/monero-dev/20250917#c589017-c589019)), so the new usage message would look something like this:
    ```
    address_book [(add (<address>|<integrated address>) [<description possibly with whitespaces>])|(delete <index>)|(change <address> <description>)]
    ```
- `get_tx_proof`, `check_tx_proof`, `get_spend_proof`, `check_spend_proof`, `get_reserve_proof`, `check_reserve_proof` all fail if <message> is more than one word [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/bba6aa518ba4533859766672cf996f6427b8f1a4/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L222-L227). We could read them like we do for `<description>` in `address_book` ([src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/bba6aa518ba4533859766672cf996f6427b8f1a4/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L9659-L9664)).

## Behavior changes:

Some behavior changes or new/removed features I could not resist to add to this PR.

- In Monero Tech Meeting [#140](https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/1277) we discussed how to show the `amount` & `fee` in the confirmation message when creating a transaction. Then I changed it from "before" to "now". After further consideration I came up with the "new proposal", which I will implement if others agree on it.
  (The `simple_wallet::transfer_main()` method captured the `change` amount [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/8e9ab9677f90492bca3c7555a246f2a8677bd570/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L6692C18-L6699) but never used/printed it. Imo it's nice to directly see the change you'll receive, so I added it to the confirmation prompt.)
  - `transfer`
    - before:
      ```
      Sending <amount>.  The transaction fee is <fee>
      ```
    - now (`total` = `amount` + `fee`):
      ```
      Sending <amount>.  The transaction fee is <fee>. The overall total is <total>. The change is <change>.
      ```
    - new proposal (`total` = `amount` + `fee` + `change`):
      ```
      Sending overall total <total> = <amount_sent> (amount sent) + <fee> (fee) + <change> (change).
      ```
  - `sweep_*`
    - before:
      ```
      Sweeping <total> for a total fee of <fee>.  Is this okay?  (Y/Yes/N/No):
      ```
    - now (`total` = `amount` + `fee`):
      ```
      Sweeping <amount> for a total fee of <fee>, overall total <total>.  Is this okay?  (Y/Yes/N/No):
      ```
    - new proposal (`total` = `amount` + `fee`):
      ```
      Sweeping overall total <total> = <amount_sent> (amount sent) + <fee> (fee).
      ```

- DataHoarder [reported some issues](https://libera.monerologs.net/monero-dev/20250921#c591956-c591963) with `check_tx_proof`
    TLDR:
        1. can't read a proof directly from string, have to use signature file
        2. signature file content may not end with new line or white spaces, or else verification fails
  With this PR both issues are solved.

- add: Options to set daemon login (username:password) and proxy in `set_daemon` command

- remove: The `payment_id` argument is already not working for `transfer` command (see below) and it's marked "obsolete" for other commands [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/bba6aa518ba4533859766672cf996f6427b8f1a4/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L200-L205), so I removed the argument from all transfer/sweep commands and from the USAGE messages, and added error messages in case someone still passes a valid payment_id
  - before:
    ```
    [wallet xxxxxx]: transfer <address> <amount> <short_payment_id>
    Error: Invalid last argument: <short_payment_id>
    [wallet xxxxxx]: transfer <address> <amount> <long_payment_id>
    Error: Error: Long payment IDs are obsolete.
    Error: Long payment IDs were not encrypted on the blockchain and would harm your privacy.
    Error: If the party you're sending to still requires a long payment ID, please notify them.
    ```
  - now:
    ```
    [wallet xxxxxx]: transfer <address> <amount> <short_payment_id>
    Error: Short payment IDs are supposed to be used with integrated addresses.
    Error: If you want to make a payment with a certain payment_id, the receiver has to generate an address with `integrated_address <payment_id>`
    ```

- add: `freeze` & `thaw` by enote public key (match [this usage message](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/bba6aa518ba4533859766672cf996f6427b8f1a4/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L2160))

- `transfer <address> <amount>` from `watch-only` wallet writes tx to file `unsigned_monero_tx`.  If that file already exists
  - before: overwrite file
    ```
    Unsigned transaction(s) successfully written to file: unsigned_monero_tx
    ```
  - now: warn and don't overwrite 
    ```
    Error: Attempting to save transaction to file, but specified file(s) exist. Exiting to not risk overwriting. File:unsigned_monero_tx
    ```
 
## Bugs

- `refresh_progress_reporter_t` prints `Height x / y` when it shouldn't, e.g. in a confirmation prompt
  - Edit: the problem in the confirmation prompt is fixed, but there are other places where it messes up the output, because it doesn't print on a new line 
- Edit: these should be fixed now: `show_transfers` does not show:
    - outgoing "pending" txs
    - incoming "pool" txs

## Testers welcome

Help to make sure everything works the same as before (or better).
Special attention to hardware devices. I don't have access to any hw wallet, so they're completely untested.


# Discussion History
## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-28T09:11:24+00:00
You can at long last remove this include; I checked, it compiles without it :)

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-28T09:21:43+00:00
Just a question, can you refresh my memory: Does "sweeping unmixables" already today not make sense anymore, or is this something geared towards the FCMP++ hardfork where it will not make sense anymore, *after* that hardfork?

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-28T13:01:53+00:00
A small stylistic thing: I would compare against `AskPassword_Never` instead of relying on the fact that this enum value is 0.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-28T14:45:34+00:00
`epee::from_hex_locale::to_vector` can throw exceptions if something is not ok with the parameters. Can this be a problem?

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-28T14:59:46+00:00
Not sure it really makes any difference, but technically you could use `const` for this and similar arguments.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-28T15:12:32+00:00
Would it be easy to use the enum constant `Unset` instead of -1?

(Did this code come in through a merge / rebase and so isn't yours?)

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-28T15:51:28+00:00
I wonder whether it would be worth it, and easy enough, to put all this repeated getting multisig state and then checking whether A) is key on device, B) is multisig, C) is ready into its own method ...

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-28T15:53:56+00:00
What the heck is this, and more importantly, is it still revelant after switching to `importMultisigImages`?

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-28T15:57:40+00:00
If I am not mistaken, now with the MMS gone there is no need anymore for *two* methods `sign_multisig` and `sign_multisig_main`?

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-28T16:01:52+00:00
Little nitpick: We already have `args[0]` ready in `filename` and could use that.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-28T16:09:11+00:00
`signers` will be needed for an info message below, but it seems your code, unlike the old code, does not set it any longer?

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-28T16:18:15+00:00
Like above, I don't think we need two separate methods `submit_multisig_main` and `submit_multisig` anymore.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-29T18:30:47+00:00
Looks to me as if there is no need to convert the same string twice, and no need for two variables `key_image` and `txid`, just one dummy one because the result is not really used.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-29T18:41:04+00:00
This looks strange, and I don't understand it.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-29T18:58:20+00:00
The Wallet API seems to implement cold signing, but I don't see any replacement for this old `cold_sign_tx` method here, which was used in the old code, nor any calls to the Wallet API cold signing method `coldSignTx` in general. What do I overlook?

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-31T14:06:42+00:00
Regarding this question: Seems to me the device name is a stored option exactly like so many others, so we should immediately write the wallet file after changing it like for all others.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-12-31T16:23:41+00:00
Just thinking aloud, make of it what you like: When I code, and delete something that was there for a long time, I do not just delete it, but in the same place of the deleted code I add comments about the deleted code, telling something *what* was once here, and/or *why* it was deleted. Here, just as an example, you could leave info what drove the decision to finally delete these commands in question.

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-01T15:33:09+00:00
Not fully sure, but I suspect that a fixed value of 1 for `kdf_rounds` is not correct. If I drill down the `m_wallet->verify_password` function call that this replaces, I see it using `m_kdf_rounds` in the old code.

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-01T16:46:21+00:00
What's the reasoning behind not deleting the pointer?

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-02T07:02:39+00:00
Might be this could go for a long time already, but that's probably a PR for another day, after carefully checking whether "saving the blockchain" on command, at a particular point in time, and from the wallet no less, is indeed totally unnecessary nowadays.

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-02T07:10:48+00:00
I am a bit confused. Isn't this whole approach of getting the "latest enote" pretty questionable? What if the transaction brings more than 1 enote? And isn't it possible that transactions come in in rapid succession, and we can't be sure about the order that `moneyReceived` will get called for them?

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-02T07:12:54+00:00
Same question like above at `moneyReceived` about the "latest enote" approach applies.

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-02T07:19:11+00:00
I just love things like a 9 year old "TODO" in the Wallet API implementation regarding implementing `on_skip_transaction` :)

I agree with your decision to not port this, the situation this is designed to report probably won't ever occur now.

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-02T07:22:35+00:00
I feel a bit unsure here. Can you please quickly explain why you switch here from `epee::wipeable_string` to simply `std::string`? I guess this goes together with a modified approach regarding password "wiping".

Maybe a good place to add a short comment to the code about this as well?

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-02T12:16:04+00:00
I am not sure whether you want to introduce some kind of new notation for output of some values with `<%64s>`, but if you do I suspect that you don't yet format consistently in this new way in all places, as you still have 3 occurences of `%68s%68s` ...

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-02T12:20:25+00:00
Does this call have any effect if you do nothing with the set arguments?

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-02T12:27:00+00:00
My C++ is already a bit rusty, but couldn't you work here with mere references for all these vectors, or at least make them `const` to allow the compiler to optimize a bit?

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-03T09:10:32+00:00
Did you want to introduce a constant for this "magic" filename? If yes, actually use it below :)

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-03T09:31:16+00:00
Shouldn't you use here the usual pattern of getting an error message through `statusWithErrorString`, and append that?

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-03T09:46:11+00:00
A second place where I wonder why there is no `statusWithErrorString` call here to fetch details.

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-03T13:39:11+00:00
I see where you come from with this construct. There was once `wallet2::get_payments` that now does not get a counterpart in the Wallet API. I think that's ok, it's easy enough to loop over the data yourself and pick what you like. So you replace the call to that method with a closure (correct term?) of the same name and leave the loop that processes the result identical.

Trouble is, as I see it, that the result is overly complicated code. You call `get_payments` exactly once, so why not refactoring further and just make a single loop over `tx_history->getAll()`  that starts with a somewhat complex condition whether to take the transaction or not?



## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-04T07:17:55+00:00
Little nitpick: You could put the result of `m_wallet_impl->unlockedBalance(account_index)` into a variable so that you don't calculate it twice, and `m_wallet_impl->balance(account_index)` likewise.

Yes, we are probably not in a place of the code where speed is of paramount importance, and we can afford to calculate such things twice, but still, the code would be trivial to improve, and IMHO it would become "nicer".

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-04T07:21:35+00:00
`m_wallet_impl->numSubaddresses(m_current_subaddress_account)` could go into a variable, mostly not for speed, but for code clarity.

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-04T07:24:58+00:00
Just a comment: I really like those "parameter explaining comments" like `/* address */` that you added in various places - it makes the code so much more readable :)

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-04T07:29:07+00:00
A bit unsure here: Can we just silently drop support for payment ids as stored in address books? We really don't have to worry about old address books that still contain those?

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-04T07:32:33+00:00
You probably should set to `true` here?

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-04T07:41:48+00:00
A quite general question that crossed my mind while reading this code: With the Wallet API approach of leaving status after a call that we can then get with `statusWithErrorString`, do we have to worry about another thread running just between our call, like `exportEnotesToStr` here, and us fetching the result, where the in-between call done by the other thread would destroy our status info?

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-04T07:57:55+00:00
The old code lists the transactions in 4 distinct blocks, with 4 separate loops, according to type, whereas your new code has only a *single* loop going over *all* transactions in the history. Does that work because the transactions in the history are ordered in the right way, so that still a listing of 4 distinct blocks according to type results?

## rbrunner7 | 2026-01-04T09:26:51+00:00
Small typo in comment: It's *committing* with double-t :)

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:14:58+00:00
Referring to the comment from @jeffro256 [here](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/28#discussion_r2060401813)
> [...] unmixable sweep transactions [...] don't need a grace period. It would be better to cut them off early than accidentally introduce some niche bug in the window when all three types of transactions are allowed.

Also mentioned in @jeffro256's [draft for v17 consensus rule changes](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9751#issue-2817355574)
You will be able to spend old unmixable outputs in FCMP++ txs with upcoming v17 fork, but new unmixable sweep txs will be rejected.

Please correct me if I'm wrong, but considering it will probably take a while until changes from this PR and all PRs it relies on are finally merged, in their own PRs, into `release` branch I'd argue it makes sense to remove that function here.


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:16:02+00:00
Noticed something unrelated: FWIW this is the only check for `AskPassword_OnAction`, and it's an implicit check. Elsewhere in the code we only check if `ask_password_type == AskPassword_Decrypt`.


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:16:52+00:00
I think it should not be a problem, if you put a `try` block around `get_daemon_init_settings()`, which is only called once in `simple_wallet::init_wallet()`.


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:19:02+00:00
Oh yes, that's possible, we have to `static_cast<int>` it, but I think it's worth it.

AFAICT [this PR](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9838/files) changed some code in that area, but this exact line was not touched by it.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:20:09+00:00
There are a few methods where the checks look similar on first sight, but they're not, so you have to be careful, but I think a `CHECK_MULTISIG_READY()` for finalized multisig wallets is a good idea.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:27:43+00:00
AFAICT this is referring to the output from `refresh_progress_reporter_t::update()` https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/f65b2864552f855af1ef58c031dafffa58aae90c/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.h#L376 
Maybe now it's needed even more than before. I mentioned it in a meeting a while ago, that the output of this method would show up now in places where it didn't before. Will keep an eye on this when testing.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:32:11+00:00
This was wrong and messy, should be better now.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:33:26+00:00
Good question, so AFAICT cold signing is handled by the implementation, when you create a tx with `createTransactionMultDest()` it calls `pendingTxPostProcess()` which then calls `wallet2::cold_sign_tx()` [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d0d418483514d3caf79547e302937e45878eab21/src/wallet/api/wallet.cpp#L2492-L2505).
I added `coldSignTx()` to #9464 before I saw this, now I think maybe we can get rid of it.
Would be great if anyone with hw wallet experience can comment on this.


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:36:23+00:00
I identified the following removed methods:
- `sweep_unmixable()`
- `unset_ring()`
- `save_known_rings()`
- `blackball()`
- `unblackball()`
- `blackballed()`
- `cold_sign_tx()`
- `accept_loaded_tx()`, multiple ones with different params
- the entire `MMS` block


Before I add the comments, I would like to bring this up: just noticed @jeffro256 made a [PR](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10014/files) in which the functionality of `save_known_rings()` got removed and instead it prints "save_known_rings is deprecated". Should I rather remove my changes and use jeffros code, or is it okay to completely remove the method now?
Maybe it even makes sense to stick to jeffros way for all (or some of) the removed methods?

Or if you think it's okay to remove the methods and just put comments in place of the removed methods:
Would you also add comments to `simplewallet.cpp` or is it sufficient to have them only in the header file?


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:40:40+00:00
That's right, missed this.
Currently we don't have access to `m_kdf_rounds` from `wallet2`, so I added `m_kdf_rounds` to `Wallet` (it's already an arg in the ctor [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d0d418483514d3caf79547e302937e45878eab21/src/wallet/api/wallet.cpp#L427)). I also completely removed `kdf_rounds` arg from `verifyPassword()` and made the impl use its new `m_kdf_rounds`.
AFAICT if you want to verify a password for a wallet which is not opened, you'd use `WalletManager::verifyWalletPassword()` which still has a `kdf_rounds` argument.


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:41:36+00:00
AFAIUI `do_delete_pointer` is for raw pointers, but we use a `unique_ptr` for the wallet. If we have `do_delete_pointer = true`, first the `WalletManager` calls `delete` on the wallet and then, when our `unique_ptr` to the wallet goes out of scope it also tries to delete the wallet and that leads to "double delete"
TLDR: closing a wallet segfaults with `do_delete_pointer = false`

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:44:49+00:00
I didn't see a problem with this, when receiving a tx under "normal conditions" [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/f65b2864552f855af1ef58c031dafffa58aae90c/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L2508-L2574), but there is also [this path](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/f65b2864552f855af1ef58c031dafffa58aae90c/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L2596-L2652) where we call `on_money_received()` without adding a new enote to `m_transfers`, according to log message: "output already exists, replacing with new output".

So you're right. I think a more sane approach would be to use `getEnoteDetails()` by `enote_pub_key` instead of `enote_index`, but I think that requires a change to `on_money_received()` in wallet2.h and `moneyReceived()` to take a new arg `enote_pub_key`. Done [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/compare/46a20e84d9f07ff2bc3a304c822c69b25ec4eded..e8f5106366bd0412adccba8672582506f35a5bb4)


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T17:46:09+00:00
Just for reference, [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/f65b2864552f855af1ef58c031dafffa58aae90c/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L2338-L2346) is the only place where `on_skip_transaction()` gets called.


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T18:05:25+00:00
This is a Wallet API callback and we don't want to add anything outside the C++ standard to the API, `wipeable_string` would require all implementations to link against `libepee`.
Discussion can be found here: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9915#discussion_r2064388854

Considering password wiping, that's still missing from this method, because it's not used in the GUI, but I think that should be done in `WalletImpl::on_get_password()` (introduced in #9464), where the `optional<std::string>` from this method is received and turned into `wipeable_string` before sending it further down to `wallet2`.


vtnerd also recommended to change `const char*` to `std::sting_view` [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10232#discussion_r2658678511) and I think it may also make sense to change the return type from `optional<std::string>` to `optional<std::string_view>`.


I haven't changed anything here yet, because I'd like to give time for more opinions.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T18:06:00+00:00
I just tried to match the output from the old CLI, which e.g. sometimes prints txids surrounded by "<>" and sometimes without.
See `show_transfers` prints txid without "<>"
whereas `incoming_transfers verbose` prints txids and onetime addresses surrounded by "<>".


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T18:06:31+00:00
`error_code` gets ignored, but the error message `err` is also an outparam of `get_daemon_blockchain_height()`


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T18:07:01+00:00
Good call, I think `const` references are the most efficient here.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T18:10:44+00:00
The implementation had no error handling ([src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/compare/77bfbd7a598823d510ff43f999e6609dbea412be..b496c2e5495990e5ac0acf3c9bec10db0ddc234d#diff-fcae134993cca2b6f1e887a60638f226ab00165e30bd4d326c17f0a58e11871fL3903-L3912)) and this method is now removed from the Wallet API ([vtnerd review](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10232#discussion_r2658672645)) and added to simplewallet.
It was just copied from wallet2, I don't know if there is much information to add or if the changes are worth it.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T18:14:26+00:00
Good call, almost embarrassing what I came up with, but at least it made me laugh.

## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T18:15:25+00:00
AFAICT we are not dropping any support here, the logic to show an integrated address if the `AddressBookRow` has a payment id is "outsourced" to the address book implementation [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/f65b2864552f855af1ef58c031dafffa58aae90c/src/wallet/api/address_book.cpp#L103-L108)


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T18:16:53+00:00
This is beyond my expertise, but I try to explain how I understand it:

For the `WalletImpl` we have `m_statusMutex` [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/f65b2864552f855af1ef58c031dafffa58aae90c/src/wallet/api/wallet.h#L262-L264), but that only prevents multiple methods from writing to `m_errorString` at the same time, it doesn't prevent the second method to overwrite the error message when the lock of the first method is released, before we read it.
So I think in theory it is possibile that a function on another thread can change the error message before we read it, but I haven't seen it happen.

One fix to make sure we don't miss any error messages could be to change `m_errorString`s type from `std::string` to `std::vector<std::string>`, then we can pop the vector until every message is read, but this comes with the downside that you would receive some of the error messages at the wrong place.
IMO it may be worth a separate PR, if anyone sees a nice solution for this.


Note: for all of these, there is not even a mutex:
`AddressBookImpl` [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/f65b2864552f855af1ef58c031dafffa58aae90c/src/wallet/api/address_book.h#L64-L65)
`PendingTransactionImpl` [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/f65b2864552f855af1ef58c031dafffa58aae90c/src/wallet/api/pending_transaction.h#L66-L67)
`UnsignedTransactionImpl` [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/f65b2864552f855af1ef58c031dafffa58aae90c/src/wallet/api/unsigned_transaction.h#L66-L67)
`WalletManagerImpl` [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/f65b2864552f855af1ef58c031dafffa58aae90c/src/wallet/api/wallet_manager.h#L101)


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-22T18:17:16+00:00
Correct, the ordering into the same 4 blocks is handled by the implementation: [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/f65b2864552f855af1ef58c031dafffa58aae90c/src/wallet/api/transaction_history.cpp#L106).


## SNeedlewoods | 2026-01-30T13:26:35+00:00
This line causes `monero-wallet-cli` to ask for a password for each tx you received, instead of asking for a single password for all received txs until refresh is done.
It somehow resets `m_encrypt_keys_after_refresh` in `wallet2`, but could not find a fix for it, therefore I just commented this line out, but without it we don't find incoming txs in the pool.

Suggestions are welcome.


## vtnerd | 2026-02-19T16:23:19+00:00
This overlaps with init, and should probably be merged with that. Otherwise I'm excited for this as it will benefit lwcli security to have a custom cert selection.

# Action History
- Created by: SNeedlewoods | 2025-11-24T17:03:15+00:00
