---
title: qt/qml message logger
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/pull/1358
author: pazos
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-04-27T21:34:55+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-05-11T21:58:16+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-05-11T21:58:16+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-05-11T21:58:16+00:00'
---

# Original Description
By default qt/qml messages are sent to stdout on X11 (and maybe on osx) and to the debugger on windows. The rest of the messages are stored in a logfile which is saved in the same path of the binary).

This PR moves all qt/qml debug messages to the same file that the rest of logging and adds a cmdline option to specify a custom logfile.

The new behaviour is:
if no custom logpath is specified use OS defined path (in Logger.cpp), which should be writable.
if a custom logfile is specified use that.

default logPath by OS:
win -> same folder of the app
mac -> $HOME/Library/Logs
linux -> $HOME/

I've removed code in WalletManager.h/cpp and Wallet.h/cpp which I think is not used elsewhere.

Fixes #1181 , #1068 

# Discussion History
## stoffu | 2018-04-30T02:09:54+00:00
How about using `--log-file` like all the other CLI apps, as opposed to the current implementation where the supplied path is assumed to be a directory? I think this is less confusing.

## stoffu | 2018-04-30T02:26:20+00:00
Shouldn't this be `init(argv[0], logPath.toStdString().c_str())`?

## pazos | 2018-04-30T16:02:15+00:00
In that case the logfile will be /path/to/bin/process_name.log and the second argument won't be used. See https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/contrib/epee/src/mlog.cpp#L68. Please correct me if I'm wrong

## pazos | 2018-04-30T16:02:29+00:00
Good point, I will do that :)

## stoffu | 2018-05-01T01:26:50+00:00
Looks like the `mlog_get_default_log_path` function is implemented incorrectly. I've made a patch for it: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/3736

I still think the first and second arguments to `init()` should be `argv[0]` and `logPath.toStdString().c_str()`, respectively, because that agrees with the intention expressed in `set_module_name_and_folder(const std::string& path_to_process_)`.


# Action History
- Created by: pazos | 2018-04-27T21:34:55+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-05-11T21:58:16+00:00
