---
title: Improvements for epee binary to hex functions
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1816
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-02-27T19:09:42+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-10-05T02:01:27+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-04-24T08:29:38+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-04-24T08:29:38+00:00'
---

# Original Description
  - Performance improvements
  - Added `span` for zero-copy pointer+length arguments
  - Added `std::ostream` overload for direct writing to output buffers
  - Removal of unused `string_tools::buff_to_hex`

Hopefully this isn't too aggressive - the existing function signatures remain the same, and I added tests to help verify that the output generated was expected. This also drops the ability to pass `std::wstring` to `buff_to_hex_nodelimer`, which no one was doing.

**Performance Testing**
I tested the instruction count using valgrind in Ubuntu 16.04 with `gcc-5.4 -flto and -ofast`. A single call to `pod_to_hex` with a `crypto::hash` resulted in an instruction count drop of 14,524 to 669. The function was called once before looking at this instruction count, to offset any lingering dynamic linker work.

I also tested in OSX with `clang-3.5 -ofast`. A single call to `pod_to_hex` with a `crypto::hash` resulted in a wall clock drop of 9,042ns to 224ns. Again, I ran some iterations before doing a wall clock to test offset the page cache timings, cpu cache, and latent dynamic linker stuff. Then ran each in a 1000 loop cycle, completely ignored the `std::string`, and took the average timing over all the iterations. I manually disassembled to make sure the compiler did not optimize away the desired call in both situations. As with all perf-timings, YMMV.

**NOTE**
This function is used in many places, particularly JSON-RPC calls. So the performance improvement will help in numerous places, and this code should be highly scrutinized by reviewers. Or even rejected. The community should be able to "testnet this" for a while (hopefully).

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-28T19:54:05+00:00
Is that calling a ctor from a ctor ? I always wanted to do this, but AFAIK it was not allowed. Is this a new change in C++ ?

## vtnerd | 2017-03-01T02:02:31+00:00
Yes, this is forwarding to the other constructor. The feature was added in C++11 - delegated constructor.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-12T21:02:42+00:00
I'm guessing the absence of reference here is on purpose ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-12T21:17:13+00:00
Does this use an uninitialized value ? I guess it doesn't actually matter since it's an identity check, but it looks like it (and valgrind would probably pick it up).

## vtnerd | 2017-04-13T15:23:02+00:00
`value` is the destination of a `memcpy` above. Easy to miss due to formatting, so I will re-arrange a bit. Declare the `value` then `memcpy` on next line.

## vtnerd | 2017-04-13T15:53:59+00:00
On second thought, I am going to leave this as-is. I don't want to do a force-push because it defeats the purpose of your review, and an additional commit for this change is silly.

## vtnerd | 2017-04-13T17:24:01+00:00
It was intentional - its going to be treated identically to separate ptr,length parameters in most (maybe even all) circumstances.

If the `span` was taken by reference, places where a temporary `span` are created require an object to be created on the stack so a memory address can be provided to the callee. Taking it by value means each field of `span` can be passed by register (depending on the ABI). The x86-64 ABI passes the internal `ptr,length` of `span` via register (I disassembled gcc output). My reading of the armeabi and x32 ABI indicates the same should happen. Older i386 ABI uses stack anyway, and no clue what Microsoft does.

So all of the `pod_to_hex` calls result in a dynamic pointer address being written to a register, and a fixed value being written to a second register. I've seen some recommendations to _always_ taking a struct whose `sizeof` exceeds `void*` by reference (this came up on the Boost ML recently). In this case it would mean one less integer "copy" per caller who already had a `span`. So the penalty is small for the currently rare case. And there's less indirection for the common case.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-13T21:08:04+00:00
It is obvious, I'm just dumb for somehow missing it. And yes, an extra commit would be silly.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2017-02-27T19:09:42+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-04-24T08:29:38+00:00
