---
title: Replace deprecated tmpnam function.
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1944
author: codehalo
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-03-30T02:40:58+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-04-10T22:21:04+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-04-10T22:21:04+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-04-10T22:21:04+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Eliminates the following warning when compiling the unit_tests:

`... blockchain_db.cpp:245:21: warning: 'tmpnam' is deprecated: This function is provided for compatibility reasons only. Due to security concerns inherent in the design of tmpnam(3), it is highly recommended that you use mkstemp(3) instead. [-Wdeprecated-declarations] std::string fname(tmpnam(NULL));`

`/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX10.12.sdk/usr/include/stdio.h:277:7: note: 'tmpnam' has been explicitly marked deprecated here char *tmpnam(char *);`

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-31T19:20:00+00:00
Why change the variable name, spamming the diffs for no good reason ?

## codehalo | 2017-03-31T19:26:47+00:00
No., not at all. Looking at the variable (fname), indicated it was a filename, not a directory until I traced the code all the way up. I figured it would be more descriptive to rename it to what it actually does. 

Your point is taken  though. The intent was not to spam at all, but make the code directly readable.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-31T20:04:00+00:00
OK, that's a good reason, thanks.

## codehalo | 2017-03-31T20:05:34+00:00
No prob. 

Also, note that the recommended replacement would not have been **mkstemp**, but **mkdtemp**, which prompted me to rename the variable for clarity, even though I used boost instead.

# Action History
- Created by: codehalo | 2017-03-30T02:40:58+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-04-10T22:21:04+00:00
