---
title: Improve accessibility
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/1169
author: erciccione
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-09-01T11:09:38+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-09-13T06:52:59+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-09-12T21:07:58+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-09-12T21:07:58+00:00'
---

# Original Description
I reviewed the entire website to assess its accessibility status. It's in a good condition overall and i haven't found any critical problems. I made some improvements that will improve the UX of visually impaired users. I couldn't implement some changes because they would have required javascript (video controls and tabs scrolling). Would be great if somebody with more experience about accessibility could review this PR, so to give suggestions on how to improve the website further.

- Fixed some interactive elemets which weren't focusable (using 'tabindex')
- Label interactive elements which weren't labelled
- Slightly increase contrast of the grey text in the top navigation bars to reach level AA in the [WCAG](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/) rating system and increse visibility of the text

# Discussion History
## 00-matt | 2020-09-01T11:46:56+00:00
Maybe this could have a bit more detail, something like:

>A screenshot of the Monero GUI wallet. It shows the wallet's balance and a navigation menu on the left, and a form for sending XMR on the right.

It's the best thing to do for images, but I'm not sure how useful it will be when showcasing GUI software (do screenreaders work with the GUI wallet?) and it's another string that will need translating.

## 00-matt | 2020-09-01T11:49:41+00:00
A bit more natural when using a screenreader, and makes it more similar to what other sites do when describing links:

```suggestion
  arrowup: "Go back to the top of the page"
```

## erciccione | 2020-09-01T13:19:03+00:00
Yeah that would be better. I added it last minute, i agree making it mroe verbose makes sense. No problem with adding another string for translators. We can also add explanations of the context is tha string is not self explanatory.

> do screenreaders work with the GUI wallet?

I don't really know.

## erciccione | 2020-09-01T13:21:52+00:00
Added both your suggestions.

# Action History
- Created by: erciccione | 2020-09-01T11:09:38+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-09-12T21:07:58+00:00
