---
title: 'p2p: Prevent inaccurate missing spans when adding a block'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10303
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- daemon
created_at: '2026-02-04T16:52:59+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-04-23T00:39:28+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This prevents a data race where the `request_missing_objects` function ends up thinking a block span is missing when really the block(s) just got added to the db.

Solves the last known cause of "runaway spans" identified on the stressnet.

This PR is arguably not an ideal solution (it jams a lock into the center of 2 large functions and carries some risk of deadlock), but barring a major rewrite to the sync protocol, it seemed the best short/medium term improvement to this section to me.

https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/275

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2026-04-22T14:36:00+00:00
Just thinking out aloud here:

We may need to figure out how to leverage `boost::asio::strand` for block queuing. That way I/O threads are never blocked, and we have thread synchronization by default.

I'm stating this, because the lock will likely work, but hurts throughput a bit :/

## vtnerd | 2026-04-22T18:56:16+00:00
Does the other PR to make this via destructor cleanup cause issues?

## vtnerd | 2026-04-22T19:22:55+00:00
This was confusing at first - the DB write isn't complete/posted until `cleanup_handle_incoming_blocks()` ... ?


## j-berman | 2026-04-22T22:04:29+00:00
Should be fine, will just need to alter the code a bit

## j-berman | 2026-04-22T22:06:35+00:00
Yep, that's where the db txn gets commited:

https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/def6fa207bf881f4db82489793cd5b79a7f3868d/src/cryptonote_core/blockchain.cpp#L4655

https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/def6fa207bf881f4db82489793cd5b79a7f3868d/src/blockchain_db/lmdb/db_lmdb.cpp#L3901

## j-berman | 2026-04-23T00:39:28+00:00
Resolved in the latest. It actually is improved now, since I'm making sure to grab the lock in those other early return places that the cleanup could get called.

For reference, here's the OG commit: https://github.com/j-berman/monero/commit/7d0323025152e4111220c1e4eecd36ff2c68347c

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2026-02-04T16:52:59+00:00
