---
title: Fix some swedish translations
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/pull/1494
author: snaggen
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-07-05T10:53:01+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-09-01T18:33:03+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-08-28T18:14:15+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-08-28T18:14:15+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Mining should be translated to Utvinning according to
discussions on tp-sv@listor.tp-sv.se since it is already
an established term used in many Bitcoin projects.
And, if another term should be used Myntning was sugested
but had to stand back for the established term Utvinning.

# Discussion History
## ordtrogen | 2018-07-06T14:52:12+00:00
What's your objection to "solo" here? Singing by a single person is "solosång" in Swedish, solo dancing is "solodans", if you like to go sailing alone you're into "solosegling" etc.  This is the pattern used in English to derive the term "solo mining". Any reason why we couldn't do it in Swedish?

## ordtrogen | 2018-07-06T14:56:59+00:00
In Swedish we don't capitalize currency names. The Institute for Language and Folklore (Språkrådet) publishes a book called *Svenska Skrivregler*. Check out §§ 8.18 and 10.8.1 for example


## snaggen | 2018-07-07T12:47:32+00:00
Solo is rarely used outside showbiz. Solosegling is more of a slang term for ensamsegling. Solo is generally a very non-formal term. 

## snaggen | 2018-07-07T12:49:55+00:00
I got the impression that monero was capitalized on all other places, so this was just for consistency. However, I'm on vacation right now, so I can't check this right now. 

## ordtrogen | 2018-07-10T13:45:27+00:00
I don't agree with your suggestion "enskild" because the translation would mean something different than the source.

The key part of "enskild" is "-skild" which indicates separation and privacy (See e.g. https://svenska.se/tre/?sok=enskild). Examples: "enskilt samtal"="private conversation", "enskilt rum"="separate room". None of which concept is part of "solo mining".

Pool miners and solo miners enjoy the same level of privacy, and nothing is implied about separation. You could have 100 miners in the same rack in a data center, half of which are solo mining and the others are pool mining. Pool versus solo mining is only about the division of labor.

Showbiz does provides a pretty good analogy, actually. If you have a choir of singers and few solo singers, they all share in the greater effort of performing a concert, but there is division of labour. The choir members pool and combine their efforts whereas the solo singers don't. Just like mining where all involved work toward the greater good of securing the blockchain, pool miners having their work combined and solo miners working alone.

But the word 'solo' itself has nothing to do with showbiz. Look it up in a dictionary and you'll find that in English as well as in Swedish it's a loanword from Italian (which in turn has it from Latin "solus"). It simply means "ensam" ("alone") and may be used as an adjective, adverb or noun.

And that's how it's used. Someone who isn't a team player is a "solospelare", whether the term is used in politics or sports. "soloflygning" (solo flight), is an integral part of every pilot curriculum, and so on. And I'd say it's a stretch to call these slang terms. Anyone who sees the word "soloseglare" for the first time immediately understands it's a person who sails alone. Whereas there's no way you can understand the word "stålar", for example, just by looking at it. Someone has to tell you that it's a word used in certain groups to mean "money". That's what slang is.


# Action History
- Created by: snaggen | 2018-07-05T10:53:01+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-08-28T18:14:15+00:00
