---
title: Adding HTTP Digest Auth (but not yet enabled)
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1444
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2016-12-13T05:46:48+00:00'
updated_at: '2016-12-20T01:11:04+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2016-12-15T12:26:00+00:00'
merged_at: '2016-12-15T12:26:00+00:00'
---

# Original Description
@hyc has been against adding HTTP auth and instead suggests adding TLS two-certificate checking (making it identical to SSH except with the complication of a CA root for server). My argument is simply that it is better to strongly nudge people to only accept local connections for HTTP, and use stunnel or SSH if someone really needs to use a remote connection. And if ZeroMQ-JSON-RPC is _eventually_ going to be preferred option over HTTP-JSON-RPC, it already has a built-in encryption / authentication based on CurveCP. So then the recommendation would be to always use ZeroMQ-JSON-RPC for remote connections. This prevents a hard-dependency on a SSL library, and the ZeroMQ security would require a libsodium dependency.

Also:
- Note the addition of a epee static library. Thoughts?
- This does **not** contain code to enable HTTP auth for either RPC server. It adds the functionality and tests, but the default argument is not used yet. I would like to do that in a separate patch - the default behavior will be to randomly generate a password and store in a file only readable by the user that started the process. Two hidden options will also be added - one for selecting username/password, and another for completely disabling HTTP auth.

# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2016-12-13T05:46:48+00:00
- Merged at: 2016-12-15T12:26:00+00:00
