---
title: 'p2p: don''t re-relay already broadcasted txs in loop, check for txpool complement
  instead'
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/174
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-10-13T23:42:40+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-10-23T20:27:38+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2025-10-16T19:40:38+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Rather than re-broadcasting every tx in the `relay_txpool_transactions` with a backoff delay (including txs that were already broadcasted successfully), this PR modifies the approach:

1) Only re-relay txs that were not already relayed successfully.*
2) Attempt to get the txpool complement from peers every 60s.
   - Node A includes all broadcasted **tx hashes** in its pool in a request for tx pool complement from Node B.
   - Node B then serves all broadcasted tx blobs in its pool that were not included in Node A's request.

Imo this PR is useful in combination with https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9933, since it uses explicit logic to make sure nodes have all the pool txs they need in consistent 60s intervals.

This PR is also useful short-term for the stressnet, since nodes will step re-relaying the entire **massive** tx pool. I believe that is a significant cause of node disconnections on stressnet today.

*except for txs with relay method set to `relay_method=none`, which I believe is related to #163. This PR maintains current behavior for txs with relay method set to `relay_method=none`.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2025-10-14T17:42:13+00:00
Doesn't this leak which node originated which transaction based on how it relays it?

## j-berman | 2025-10-14T18:09:23+00:00
You may be right. When writing this PR, I incorrectly thought that txs in `relay_method::local` only remain local if they fail to relay. I thought `upgrade_relay_method` on initial relay would upgrade initial `relay_method` from `relay_method::local` to either `relay_method::stem` or `relay_method::fluff` (or `relay_method::forward`).

I'm going to think on this PR further.

## j-berman | 2025-10-14T22:53:48+00:00
After thinking on it, I still maintain this PR should be a solid improvement (and I maintain we want it in for stressnet). My understanding was ok.

I don't see how this PR can logically **introduce** a leak. With current code ignoring this PR, local txs will be re-relayed in a separate message over the connection [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d32b5bfe18e2f5b979fa8dc3a8966c76159ca722/src/cryptonote_core/cryptonote_core.cpp#L1143-L1144), so if you assume that broadcasting local txs here reveals the originating node, then it's already leaky with current code (the receiving node will see brand new txs in some new message and could logically infer those are originated by the node). So if you assume this PR leaks, then it must already be leaking.

More context:

- When you submit a tx to your node in `send_raw_tx`, its relay method is initially set to `local` ([source](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d32b5bfe18e2f5b979fa8dc3a8966c76159ca722/src/rpc/core_rpc_server.cpp#L1386-L1434)).
- Then there are a series of possible relay routes ([source](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d32b5bfe18e2f5b979fa8dc3a8966c76159ca722/src/cryptonote_protocol/levin_notify.cpp#L819-L906)):
    1) If noise is enabled (the comment indicates it's only enabled when relaying over tor/i2p), it will remain in `local` until the node **receives** the tx again from another node.
    2) If noise not enabled and relaying over clearnet, `local` will be upgraded to either `stem` or `fluff`.
    3) Else it will remain in `local` until the node **receives** the tx again from another node.
- A tx received from another node will have its relay set upgraded to either `fluff`, `forward`, or `stem` ([source](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d32b5bfe18e2f5b979fa8dc3a8966c76159ca722/src/cryptonote_protocol/cryptonote_protocol_handler.inl#L924-L977)).

Thus, a tx in `local` after initial relay will remain in `local` until it's received back from another node.

All this `relay_txpool_transactions` loop that this PR touches is doing is re-attempting the possible relay routes from above for txs in the pool set to `local`. So it's repeating an action that occurs at time x, at time x+y. If there was some leak at time x, then how could it happening at time x+y introduce some additional leak? It's just re-attempting exactly what was attempted at time x, again at time x+y.

If there is a leak, it would have to be internal to the relay handling, not from this PR.

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2025-10-13T23:42:40+00:00
- Closed at: 2025-10-16T19:40:38+00:00
