---
title: 'Repo: add Vulnerability Response Process'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1995
author: anonimal
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-04-21T20:13:38+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-06-28T19:48:36+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-05-05T09:23:52+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-05-05T09:23:52+00:00'
---

# Original Description
As discussed in Kovri meetings and IRC, here is a formalized VRP. This will aid us in working with researchers and HackerOne.

The point of contacts are tentative until there is a consensus on if we should use `dev@getmonero.org` as single POC.

RFC! This can be considered a WIP.

**Edit**: Referencing https://github.com/monero-project/monero-core/pull/778 https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/282 https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/39

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-21T21:10:17+00:00
This seems kovri specific

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-21T21:12:05+00:00
Why not when there's a fix and binaries (or when there is known effective mitigation) ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-21T21:13:14+00:00
affected

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-21T21:15:44+00:00
Publicly discuss about whether to make public something hitherto private ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-21T21:16:38+00:00
Not quite clear to me. Packaging would be out of scope, for example.

## anonimal | 2017-04-21T21:27:12+00:00
Oops, so s/routers/nodes/g would you agree? I think the network aspect still applies though I also think we should include the loss of monero as HIGH?

## anonimal | 2017-04-21T21:31:51+00:00
>affect, not effect
>but it's actually effect

I get this all the time, so I and end up sending this link instead 😄  

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affect_%28linguistics%29

## anonimal | 2017-04-21T21:40:18+00:00
>ii. Focus on apps/distro packaging, etc.

Well, since we distribute Docker and snap, and provide systemd + conf files, I don't think it's entirely out of scope.

## anonimal | 2017-04-21T21:52:14+00:00
Yes because point c. implies that section IV point I. was reached, which in turn does not imply that *we* have chosen to respond/acknowledge a vulnerability and/or finish all points in III, which in turn forces us to discuss publicly because the researcher has the option to disclose (after the 90 day grace period) even if they may not - or do not - wish to disclose.

Does that make sense? Should we word this differently?

## anonimal | 2017-04-21T22:01:07+00:00
>Why not when there's a fix and binaries

What if we added `If fix is available in less than 3 days, skip to point 8.`?

>or when there is known effective mitigation

This is covered in `i. The notification should list appropriate steps for users to take, if any`.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-22T08:06:46+00:00
Well, this sentence is clearly not talking about affectation in that sense, so your link, while it presents one meaning of "affect", does not in itself preclude another meaning being in use. Nonetheless, you might well be correct. I thought "affected" was "to which something causes consequences", while "effected" was "being operated, or changed". I'll have a look later to see what I can find :)

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-22T08:08:14+00:00
Yes, if they're in tree, it makes sense to treat those as in scope.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-22T08:12:12+00:00
I think I see the case where this might happen, and I think I see the intended subtlety: the existence of an exploit will be known, but the intent is to publicly decide whether information about it will be disclosed. Since the public has no way to have an opinion either way due to the details being still private, it only serves as shitstorm generator, no ?

## anonimal | 2017-04-22T08:40:17+00:00
It doesn't help that there are three possible sounds for *effect*: ɛffect, ɪffect, and iːffect whereas *affect* only has two: æffect and ɑːffect(ion). https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA_for_English

AFAIR, affect is only used for emotional/subjective language. If there's more to this, I'd love to learn more!

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-22T08:51:41+00:00
Well:

https://www.thesaurus.com/browse/effect: to carry out, accomplish
https://www.dictionary.com/browse/effect: to produce as an effect; bring about; accomplish; make happen

https://www.thesaurus.com/browse/affect: influence, affect emotionally (fun how this is circular)
https://www.dictionary.com/browse/affect: to act on; produce an effect or change in

The third line goes your way, but that page then goes on to give as possible synonyms: apply (be appropriate, relevant), with further synonyms such as: be applicable, be pertinent, bear upon, relate, refer, terms which do not strike me as, er, pertinent to emotions. So I think affect may be used in both senses, and is thus either a homonym, or a single word used in the emotional context, but also in the broader context.

But hey, IANALinguist.


## deleted_user | 2017-04-22T22:28:47+00:00
@moneromooo-monero is right - affected, as in 'the earthquake affected the lives of 20,000 people'

## anonimal | 2017-04-23T06:13:50+00:00
>thesaurus.com
>dictionary.com

Really?

## anonimal | 2017-04-23T06:21:35+00:00
>it only serves as shitstorm generator

Hmm, maybe not *only* serve but that is certainly a strong side-effect. Maybe this line keeps us in check and ensures we follow through with III.? If we don't have this line (or similar), I don't think we'll have enough responsibility to ensure we avoid the negative repercussions of not successfully completing III.

## anonimal | 2017-04-23T07:10:38+00:00
>PRIVATE git "hotfix branch" to work in

@moneromooo-monero @danrmiller @fluffypony perhaps this would be a good opportunity to utilize our gitlab instance?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-23T12:35:39+00:00
Yes, I included the full URLs if you want to double check.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-23T12:36:16+00:00
OK, that's a fair point.

## hyc | 2017-04-23T17:21:55+00:00
Same affect/effect here - these should be "affects"

## anonimal | 2017-04-23T20:37:21+00:00
Why it's *effect*: the colon is a substitute for "that" or "which has an effect", which in turn treats the listed points as consequences to the antecedent. Establishing severity of vulnerability does not "act upon; to produce an effect or change upon" the resulting consequence but rather is a response *to* the affect of exploitation:

> Syn: {Effect}, {Consequence}, {Result}.
>  Usage: These words indicate things which arise out of some
          antecedent, or follow as a consequent. Effect, which
          may be regarded as the generic term, denotes that
          which springs directly from something which can
          properly be termed a cause. A consequence is more
          remote, not being strictly caused, nor yet a mere
          sequence, but following out of and following
          indirectly, or in the train of events, something on
          which it truly depends.

>  {Of no effect}, {Of none effect}, {To no effect}, or {Without
   effect}, destitute of results, validity, force, and the like;
      vain; fruitless. `Making the word of God of none effect
      through your tradition.` --Mark vii. 13. `All my study
      be to no effect.` --Shakespeare

> {To give effect to}, to make valid; to carry out in practice;
      to push to its results.

>{To take effect}, to become operative, to accomplish aims.
      --Shakespeare

So either we drop the colon and clarify, or trust the language 😄 

## anonimal | 2017-04-23T20:46:06+00:00
If the language were "Include systems/apps which were affected by the vulnerability", that would also be accurate. Please see https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1995#discussion_r112843832 as to why it's *effect*. 

Also, `to bring to pass` and `To effect` (the outcome of a produced affect):
```
Effect \Ef*fect"\, v. t. [imp. & p. p. {Effected}; p. pr. & vb.
   n. {Effecting}.]
   1. To produce, as a cause or agent; to cause to be.
      [1913 Webster]

            So great a body such exploits to effect. --Daniel.
      [1913 Webster]

   2. To bring to pass; to execute; to enforce; to achieve; to
      accomplish.
      [1913 Webster]

            To effect that which the divine counsels had
            decreed.                              --Bp. Hurd.
      [1913 Webster]

            They sailed away without effecting their purpose.
                                                  --Jowett (Th.
                                                  ).
```

So, either we rephrase/clarify, or trust the language 😉 

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-04-24T08:25:20+00:00
I think you're misusing as your definition, while correct, is misapplied here, but whatever. It can stay as is.

## fluffypony | 2017-04-24T08:54:24+00:00
It's simpler than the definition, since the definition is pretty similar. Effect is a noun, affect is both a verb and a noun. When "affect" is used as a verb it literally means "to have an effect on".

Since it's being used as a verb here, the correct word is affect:)

# Action History
- Created by: anonimal | 2017-04-21T20:13:38+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-05-05T09:23:52+00:00
