---
title: 'wallet: CLI & RPC speed up refresh/show_transfers w/large pool [stressnet]'
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/162
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-10-10T07:21:11+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-10-21T17:43:32+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-10-21T17:43:32+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-10-21T17:43:32+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Fixes #150
Fixes #152

Always use the incremental pool fetching approach when the wallet wants to get the latest pool state.

Imagine the following:
- A user refreshes their wallet and sees they received tx A in the pool.
- Then the tx gets mined, but the user hasn't refreshed their wallet yet.
- Then the user uses `show_transfers`.

Tx A isn't in the pool anymore, but the wallet doesn't know it's been mined yet.

The wallet currently handles this by making sure `show_transfers` still shows that Tx A is in the pool.

This PR maintains that functionality, while using the incremental pool fetching approach **both** for `show_transfers` AND for the main refresh loop.

This PR achieves this by keeping a second `m_secondary_pool_info_query_time` that's **only** used in the `update_pool_state` function. Notably, `update_pool_state` will **never** remove a tx from the wallet's state if it's not in the pool anymore. Only the main refresh loop can do that. However, the main refresh loop needs to make sure it **sees** that a tx is removed from the pool. Thus, the main refresh loop **always** uses the original `m_pool_info_query_since` to capture all changes to the pool since the main refresh loop ran.

I believe the only downside with this approach is that the main refresh loop might end up re-processing *some* txs that were already processed last run of `show_transfers`, are not receives or spends, AND are not in the `m_scanned_pool_txs` cache. But, since the main refresh loop is incremental since last loop, it shouldn't be an issue. This is a major improvement over current behavior where the CLI presently fetches the entire pool every loop.

This PR should be upstream-able. I'd like to see it tested on stressnet too.

# Discussion History
## rbrunner7 | 2025-10-17T13:17:22+00:00
This comment is outdated because of how things work now with this PR, and should be modified to speak about how things were before this PR, or maybe deleted outright: Thanks to `m_secondary_pool_info_query_time` a call to this and using incremental update is not in danger to miss transactions anymore, like in my version that worked with a single time.

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2025-10-10T07:21:11+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-10-21T17:43:32+00:00
