---
title: 'storage: add key sorting'
source_url: https://github.com/Cuprate/cuprate/pull/198
author: hinto-janai
assignees: []
labels:
- A-storage
- C-fix
created_at: '2024-06-27T00:34:01+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-07-01T20:36:03+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-07-01T19:24:48+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-07-01T19:24:48+00:00'
---

# Original Description
### What
Makes some changes to the `cuprate_database::Key` trait to support custom key sorting for both backends, with types and function definitions (only at compile time).

Fixes #179.

### Where
`cuprate_database` public addition:
```rust
pub enum KeyCompare {
    Default,
    Number,
    Custom(fn(&[u8], &[u8]) -> Ordering),
}
```
```rust
pub struct StorableStr(pub Cow<'static, str>);
/* impl Storable and Key */
```

`cuprate_database` public edit:
```rust
pub trait Key: Storable + Sized {
    const KEY_COMPARE: KeyCompare = KeyCompare::Default;
}
/* impl correct compare order for types */
```

`cuprate_database` private addition:
```rust 
/* impl heed::Comparator using Key::KEY_COMPARE */
```

# Discussion History
## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T01:24:47+00:00
## Key 1/4

Like redb, all of `cuprate_database`'s key types must implement `Key`, which must define a sort order.

There is no diff in the `redb` backend folder because we were already forwarding `Key::compare` to it.

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T01:26:40+00:00
## Key 2/4
`heed` also requires this info from the user, which we now have with `T: Table` where the `T::Key` has a sort order.

Opening/creating a table now:
- Creates a database builder
- Sets the correct key/value types
- Sets the correct sort order

The user does not have to call a "set sort order" function, they define their sort order at compile time with `trait Key`, which forwards to...

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T01:27:16+00:00
## Key 3/4
This implementation on our compatibility wrapper type. It just forwards our `Key::compare` to `heed`'s compare function.

Now the database table will use `Key::compare` to compare keys.

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T01:28:44+00:00
## Key 4/4
`Key`'s blanket impl is removed and replaced with some implementation for common types.

These impls now implement the behavior that `cuprate_blockchain` wants by default.

| Common type | Comparison behavior |
|-------------|---------------------|
| Vectors/arrays/string | Straight byte comparison; `a.cmp(&b)`
| Numbers | Convert to number, then do a _value_ comparison

The reason why strings are treated the same as bytes is because [Rust does it like that](https://doc.rust-lang.org/1.79.0/src/core/str/traits.rs.html#12-25). We can change it but I don't think we have any tables that care about this.

The reason why the blanket impl is removed is it allows outer crates to define their own
comparison functions for their `T: Storable` types.

The reverse way of doing this is:
- Leaving the blanket impl
- Doing byte comparisons for everything by default

Then in `cuprate_blockchain` we would have to create wrapper types for all the numbers, e.g. `struct SortU8(pub u8)` and implement the custom sorting. This is probably more clean and separated but kind of a pain.

It's worth noting in `redb`:
- [Number comparison is the default](https://docs.rs/redb/2.1.1/src/redb/types.rs.html#601-624)
- [Key types are selectively implemented, not blanket impl on all values](https://docs.rs/redb/2.1.1/redb/trait.Key.html)

So I think doing it like this is OK.

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T01:29:15+00:00
Example 1/2 of integer keys being compared by their _value_ and not bytes.

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T01:29:36+00:00
Example 2/2.

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T01:30:26+00:00
This `Primary` type was removed. This is leftover from before, but no longer makes sense since the type implementing `Key` _is_ the primary type.

Will need changing if/when multi-map support is added.

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T01:30:45+00:00
This struct was also added.

Basically the same as `StorableVec` but for strings. `Cow<'static, str>` instead of `String` to allow `Cow::Borrowed("static string")`.

Reason why this was added was because I wondering if we should do custom string comparisons, but chose not to. Can remove this.

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T01:32:19+00:00
I think we'll need a multi-map abstraction for FCMPs btw (and it can replace this type).

This was the only type that needed to be implemented after removing the `Key` blanket impl.

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T18:01:50+00:00
## Key 1/4
`trait Key`'s custom compare function was replaced with an `enum` defined...

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T18:01:54+00:00
## Key 2/4
...here.

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T18:01:57+00:00
## Key 3/4
Implementation detail: LMDB's `INTEGER_KEY` flag only supports `u32`, `u64` and `usize` if it's either of those.

`redb` supports all numbers out-the-box though, so our workaround is:

1. We implement `Key` for `u32, u64, usize` and set `KeyCompare::Number`
2. For all other numbers we set `KeyCompare::Custom(/* number compare fn */)`

then in the `heed` backend implementation...

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T18:06:10+00:00
## Key 4/4
...we forward the `KeyCompare::Number` to use the faster flag instead. We only fall back to custom integer comparison if the number isn't supported.

Our only number keys for `cuprate_blockchain` are `u64` so it doesn't really matter to support this for _us_, but I thought it would be nice to maintain the sorted behavior for _all_ numbers, like `redb`.

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-28T18:07:47+00:00
Sidenote: we have to now define this `C: heed::Comparator` everywhere now...

## Boog900 | 2024-06-29T00:10:43+00:00
We might be able to use the same technique we currently use for pre-RCT outputs, I'll have to look into it more 

## Boog900 | 2024-06-29T00:14:12+00:00
Uhmm is this defiantly correct? 

How is LMDB supposed to search the data correctly without the correct comparison function?

## Boog900 | 2024-06-29T00:19:02+00:00
I think it might be better to call this `Default`, as lexicographic still puts a requirement on backends.

If this was instead `Default` we can just use any method for the backend, whichever is more performant.

Not really an issue now as no backend actually has another default than lexicographic.

## Boog900 | 2024-06-29T00:20:04+00:00
Probably alright to stay.

## Boog900 | 2024-06-29T00:22:59+00:00
Yeah it's probably better to do it this new way

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-30T20:59:02+00:00
AFAICT [tables store flags / comparison functions in some struct data _once_ upon first open](https://github.com/LMDB/lmdb/blob/b8e54b4c31378932b69f1298972de54a565185b1/libraries/liblmdb/mdb.c#L10955-L10963), [which gets retrieved upon subsequent opens](https://github.com/LMDB/lmdb/blob/b8e54b4c31378932b69f1298972de54a565185b1/libraries/liblmdb/mdb.c#L10969-L10987).

Opening with a different `heed::Comparator` after creation doesn't seem to change the order (after all, I'm pretty sure these are only supposed to be set once). In the below example you can open the read table with a different comparator, but the values will still be in the `NumberComparator` order that was set upon creation.

Even writing to the same table with a different comparator will still follow original comparator rules.

```rust
use heed::{
    byteorder::LittleEndian, types::*, Comparator, Database, DatabaseFlags, EnvOpenOptions,
};

struct NumberComparator;
impl Comparator for NumberComparator {
    fn compare(a: &[u8], b: &[u8]) -> std::cmp::Ordering {
        let a = u64::from_le_bytes(a.try_into().unwrap());
        let b = u64::from_le_bytes(b.try_into().unwrap());
        a.cmp(&b)
    }
}

type TableDefault = Database<U64<LittleEndian>, U64<LittleEndian>>;
type TableCustom = Database<U64<LittleEndian>, U64<LittleEndian>, NumberComparator>;
const TABLE: &str = "table";

fn main() -> Result<(), anyhow::Error> {
    let env = unsafe {
        let mut env_builder = EnvOpenOptions::new();
        let dir = tempfile::tempdir()?;
        env_builder
            .max_dbs(126)
            .map_size(4096 * 100000)
            .open(dir.path())?
    };

    // Write table - Insert {0 ... 256}.
    {
        let mut tx_rw = env.write_txn()?;

        let t: TableCustom = env
            .database_options()
            .name(TABLE)
            .types()
            .key_comparator::<NumberComparator>() // custom comparator set
            .flags(DatabaseFlags::INTEGER_KEY) // flag set
            .create(&mut tx_rw)?;

        for i in 0..257 {
            t.put(&mut tx_rw, &i, &0)?
        }

        tx_rw.commit()?;
    }

    // Read table - Assert integers are in value order.
    {
        let tx_ro = env.read_txn()?;
        // - flag NOT set
        // - custom comparator NOT set
        let t: TableDefault = env.open_database(&tx_ro, Some(TABLE))?.unwrap();

        for i in t.iter(&tx_ro)? {
            let i = i?;
            println!("{i:?}")
        }

        // integers are in order, even without flag/comparator set.
        assert_eq!(t.first(&tx_ro)?.unwrap().0, 0);
        assert_eq!(t.last(&tx_ro)?.unwrap().0, 256);

        tx_ro.commit()?;
    }

    Ok(())
}
```

## hinto-janai | 2024-06-30T21:42:45+00:00
@Boog900 There is a problem with this.

Since the comparator function is baked into heed's database _type_, setting a different one means we're returning a different type - we can't do this since `-> impl DatabaseRw<T>` must be _one_ type.

I.e. in the first 2 branches we're returning:
```rust
heed::Database<K, V, heed::DefaultComparator>
```
but in the last, we're returning:
```rust
//            implements heed::Comparator
//                   v
heed::Database<K, V, StorableHeed<Key>>
```

Workarounds I've thought about so far:

Workaround: always call `key_comparator`, the `heed::Comparator` impl forwards to the correct fn at compile time
Con: ~10% slower DB writes, even the default. I believe it's because LMDB has to call our (un-inline-able?) function instead of using its built-in one

Workaround: Only support `u32, u64, usize` for value comparisons
Con: No custom comparison for anything other than those

Workaround (best IMO): Document an invariant that the new `create_db` _must_ be called to "set" the flags / comparison fns. After that, `open_db_r{o,w}` will be like before this PR - open with no flags or comparison function, assume they were set with `create_db`.
Con: Users must follow the invariant for correct behavior.

The last one works since `create_db` doesn't return the DB, so no type worries.

## Boog900 | 2024-06-30T22:38:32+00:00
Ah ok, LMDB caches the comparison function, that makes sense, thanks.

Users would be required to create these tables/ open them rw on startup for these flags to be set (I forgot if that is already a requirement or if we dropped that), with your other comment though this is already needed.

## Boog900 | 2024-06-30T22:42:44+00:00
Ah ok, yeah I like the the last option best as well

> Con: ~10% slower DB writes,

LMDB still needs to call the comparison function for reads, so reads should be slower as well, probably more so as the comparison function takes up a bigger percent of the total work for reads compared to writes. 

## Boog900 | 2024-06-30T22:44:02+00:00
I would update the comment to include that LMDB is caching the comparison function 

## hinto-janai | 2024-07-01T00:17:44+00:00
`EnvInner::create_db` is now responsible for setting flags / comparison behavior, this invariant is documented...

## hinto-janai | 2024-07-01T00:18:10+00:00
...here on `EnvInner`, `open_db_r{o,w}`, and `create_db`.

## hinto-janai | 2024-07-01T00:18:21+00:00
Unrelated: fixed `redb`'s `clear_db` behavior. It is supposed to error if the table didn't exist, test added...

## hinto-janai | 2024-07-01T00:18:23+00:00
...here.

## hinto-janai | 2024-07-01T00:23:46+00:00
`Key` must now be `Ord` because `heed`'s `create_db` may call:
- `heed::Comparator::compare` which may call...
- `KeyCompare::as_compare_fn` which may call...
- `Ord::cmp()` for value comparison

Thankfully this is already the case for all our keys but is this going to be a problem in the future? Is there a clearer way to set these bounds?

## Boog900 | 2024-07-01T01:59:27+00:00
I don't think so, it kinda makes sense for `Key` to require `Ord`

## Boog900 | 2024-07-01T02:01:07+00:00
We have this already right? https://github.com/Cuprate/cuprate/blob/7e9891de5b54f9caf11fd1ed57a5c45daeb57a11/storage/database/src/database.rs#L48

```suggestion
```

# Action History
- Created by: hinto-janai | 2024-06-27T00:34:01+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-07-01T19:24:48+00:00
