---
title: Updates to epee HTTP client code
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1629
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-01-25T05:40:06+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-04-24T17:53:57+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-02-02T17:32:18+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-02-02T17:32:18+00:00'
---

# Original Description
  - http_simple_client now uses std::chrono for timeouts
  - http_simple_client accepts timeouts per connect / invoke call
  - shortened names of epee http invoke functions
  - invoke command functions only take relative path, connection
    is not automatically performed

This makes adding HTTP client authentication easier. Even if it gets quickly blown away by ZeroMQ, I think this a worthwhile standalone cleanup. I have tested the various clients - wallet and monerod command executor mode. I have not profiled, but this should definitely be a win performance wise because it cuts down on lots of string manipulation being done for every remote function call.

@moneromooo-monero, @Jaqueeee, and @mbg033 (if still around) might want to peak at this.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2017-01-28T18:26:18+00:00
Can you give an overview of the intent of this change ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-01-28T18:40:30+00:00
Does this init the 256 slots of the array to 0 ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-01-28T18:43:47+00:00
I assume the removal of default port is intended and checked, but in case it's not.

## vtnerd | 2017-01-29T04:22:27+00:00
Yes, this was intentional but I am wondering whether this should be moved to `wallet2::init` instead. The behavior previously was inconsistent - if someone created `wallet2` and _happened_ to call this function, then it would set the default port. I quick glance at the GUI indicates that by default the port is explicitly listed, but if a user were to change the host without a port, the default is likely added because the GUI calls this function often.

## vtnerd | 2017-01-29T04:22:58+00:00
Yes. `m_earliest_height` is value intialized here. Value initialized arrays value initialize each element of the array. A value initialized integer is set to 0.

## vtnerd | 2017-01-29T04:24:58+00:00
Going from `boost::posix_time` to `std::chrono` meant a different ASIO timer has to be used. Internally ASIO forwards to the same OS specific calls, but the original `asio::deadline_timer` doesn't support `sd::chrono`.

As for moving to `std::chrono`...

Previously the functions for invoking remote commands were using `unsigned` types for specifying timeouts. There was no indication in the comments, name, or type for the unit of time. Since the usage of the function was changing (to use relative path instead of specifying full path), I decided to take the opportunity to update the type for the timeout parameter, so that the unit of time was explicit. The `std::chrono` library is the C++11 way of dealing with time. Benefits:
- Durations (`std::chrono::seconds`, etc) and specific points in time (`std::chrono::steady_clock::time_point`, etc) are fast - just wrappers around a single integer.
- Arithmetic with different units of time are automatically scaled to smallest unit in expression
- Assigning to a unit of time that would cause precision loss is a compiler failure unless `duration_cast` is used (I.e. `std::chrono::seconds timeout = std::chrono::milliseconds(10);` is a compile failure).
- Durations are fully `constexpr` enabled, and values known at compile are constant folded like normal integers (i.e. `std::chrono::milliseconds foo = std::chrono::hours(10) + std::chrono::seconds(33));`) can be computed/folded at compile-time
- Durations are not implicitly constructible from integers. This forces callees to specify a unit of time, which means changing the unit of time in the function signature never alters the behavior.

I think `std::chrono` should be preferred because it is `constexpr` enabled, and the duration types avoid the base class `posix::time_duration` (which has an "implemention defined" unit of time and strange constructor).

The codebase is already using `std::chrono` in a few select areas.

Thoughts ... ?

## vtnerd | 2017-01-29T06:43:39+00:00
I could also do `expires_from_now(boost::posix_time::milliseconds(timeout.count()))`, so the timer type could remain the same - reducing the number of lines touched by the patch.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-01-29T12:45:03+00:00
That makes sense, thank you.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2017-01-25T05:40:06+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-02-02T17:32:18+00:00
