---
title: Initial tx_history
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/13
author: DangerousFreedom1984
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2023-10-25T20:56:00+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-06-23T09:05:50+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2025-06-23T09:05:50+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
The idea is to collect transaction records (both for legacy and seraphis) authored by the wallet in order to provide the user the information he wants to look back. This component could be used to visualize detailed information of enotes or to generate knowledge_proofs for example.

This is the most basic component I could come up with. For sure new functionalities will be added in the future but for now it allows to show all the info from enotes and to generate/verify all knowledge proofs.

### This PR contains the following:

#### Creation of Transaction History Component:
- It allows to efficiently look at transaction records by searching the txid of sent txs.
- The transaction records contains:
    - the key_images of sent enotes (so the enote_records can be easily recovered from the enote_store).
    - the JamtisPaymentProposals so the enote_ephemeral_private_key and destination addresses can be recovered.
- Created (de)serialization functions to the components of the class so they can be imported/exported.

### It creates/modifies the files:

#### encrypt_file.h (temporary)
- Used to encrypt/decrypt and save/load SpTransactionStoreV1 to a file

#### serialization_types.h

- Make/Recover serializable structs used in the wallet (transaction_history, knowledge_proofs, ...)

#### transaction_history.h

- Contains SpTransactionStoreV1 which contains map by tx_id to TransactionRecordV1.
- TransactionRecordV1 contains 1) key_images of spent enotes in a tx (so almost all the information about the tx can be retrieved looking at the corresponding enote at the EnoteStore) and 2) JamtisPaymentProposals (so all other information like destination and enote_ephemeral_privkey can be retrieved).
- Functions to load (import) /save (export) TxHistory
- Functions to add entries to TxHistory from a transaction
- Functions to get enotes from a tx or last txs

#### transaction_utils.h

- Useful functions for transactions (like going from `JamtisDestination` to the string address (xmra1...))

#### src/seraphis_mocks/mock_send_receive.h

- Returns the JamtisPaymentProposals from the tx creation so it can be added to the transaction history
- We dont care about modifying the seraphis_mock class as it is only used for unit_tests by now
- The mock functions serve as an example to show how the corresponding real functions would look like

#### tests/unit_tests/sp_wallet_read_write.cpp
- Unit_test to test the functions from the transaction_history.h

----
#### New tasks and open issues:
- How to store wallet data on files? Is there a standard? The encrypt_file.h should be modified accordingly.

# Discussion History
## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-27T13:00:25+00:00
The changes in this file and the corresponding header file make this PR into a mixed Seraphis library + Seraphis wallet PR. I am still firmly convinced that making and merging such PRs directly to the Seraphis wallet, with nothing visible and nothing happening in the Seraphis library, is a *very* bad idea. I am afraid that this will get us into merge troubles due to conflicts in no time, and also has the disadvantage that @UkoeHB may miss what's happening and may not have a chance to also review and comment.

I am sorry, but unless the collective of all the other relevant working group member overrule me, I refuse to accept such "mixed" PRs. This would mean this has to go through the Seraphis library first and then find its way into the Seraphis wallet branch with a merge from there.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-27T13:13:17+00:00
If I checked correctly, the following happened here: There is a `construct_tx_for_mock_ledger_v1` that is *almost* usable for your purposes, except that it does not give back those two kinds of payment proposals. Your reaction: You take that method, duplicate all 100 lines or so, add two output parameters and modify the duplicated code a bit to set those parameters.

Well, of course that *technically* works, but the resulting code duplication is a software engineering no-go. People looking at this in the future will never be fully sure that the two parameters are the only difference, because it's just too hard to compare the code of the two methods. And if something changes in transaction construction, you will have to modify forever *two* methods, and I guarantee you it does not take long until somebody modifies something and does not notice that there are two methods. Result: One broken and faulty transaction contruction method.

There are basically two sane and reasonable ways to do what is needed here:

A) You keep a single method, add the two parameters you need, and modify the places where the method is called in existing Seraphis library code accordingly.

B) You take the existing method, add the two parameters you need. Then you write a quite short and simple *new* method with the old signature that calls your modified method and just "throws away" the two vectors. This way you don't have to modify any code that calls the existing method.

Seeing that there are only few calls to the method, I would probably go way A).

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-27T13:16:26+00:00
Maybe it's a naming convention that is not very obvious, but if "it's several things", i.e. a vector, a list, or similar, you use plural. Just look up a few lines in the parameter list and note the plurals `local_user_sp_keys` and `outlays`.

So this parameter clearly needs to be `selfsend_payments`.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-27T13:21:50+00:00
I would love to see this as a separate PR. With such, we could have a focussed discussion, maybe also involving other devs than just you and me, whether such a class is useful and a good idea, whether it uses a good approach, and so on. Now this feels out of place in your PR about tx history anyway.

I am not sure, maybe that's not a good idea, but how about breaking dependencies by making a version 0 PR for your tx history that does not yet actually write into files, so you don't have to wait until the separate PR with this class is merged? You can later add reading and writing to the tx history with a second PR.


## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-27T13:29:58+00:00
If I come around I will write a separate issue with details about the question whether in the Seraphis wallet code we should follow the Seraphis library convention of versioning class names, like here with `SpTransactionStoreV1` and not simply `TransactionStore`.

In short: I think in the Seraphis library this versioning is a good idea, because beside `JamtisPaymentProposalV1` there may be soon `JamtisPaymentProposalV2` and even `JamtisPaymentProposalV3`, and the library will have to support them all, concurrently. You won't be able to give up `JamtisPaymentProposalV1`. Indeed, if you could, the whole versioning would make no sense IMHO.

Is the same true about this transaction store? Is there a good probability that soon we will have a `SpTransactionStoreV2` and that, even more importantly, wallet code will have to juggle with a `SpTransactionStoreV1` **and** a `SpTransactionStoreV2` object in parallel for some hard technical reason?

That somehow sounds pretty improbable to me. That leads me to a proposal to drop the "V1" here and go for `SpTransactionStore`.

But as I said, maybe that decision needs a broader discussion.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-27T13:37:56+00:00
You have now **two** classes `SpTransactionStoreV1` and `SpTransactionHistory`. What's are the reasons for two classes? Why not simply `SpTransactionHistory`?

I can't see any reasons right now, except the prediction that maybe soon a history will have transaction store V1 plus a transaction store V2 to deal with, and then you better have a class that can shield the rest of the code from the hassle that this will cause.

But well, if I am correct that fearing a transaction store V2 is unfounded, this falls away.

I have a humorous motto in the company I work: "Simple is simply simpler."

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-27T13:39:55+00:00
I think the name part `to_tx_history` is superfluous: We are here in the tx history, to what else would you want to add it? Plus, other methods do not have it either.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-27T13:42:04+00:00
Again, I am not too happy to see this here, as part of this PR. It would be much nicer, if you ask me, to put this into its own PR. Focus and all. But it's small alright, so I wouldn't insist too hard.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-27T13:48:22+00:00
Well, your code looks ok to me. It's such a harmless `case` that will never grow over our heads in size, so why ready a large canon with some overly clever C++ wizzardry that half of use even don't understand?

But I am not sure it's a good idea to just return an empty string for anything else than V1. If we introduce Jamtis address version 2, we must catch this method as one that needs adjusting, and if you are tolerant here and just give back empty you mask the problem if we first forget to adjust.

With such translation methods, code written in my own "programming style" always throws an exception in the default case so that I notice as fast as possible if I extend an enum but forget to adjust some code accordingly.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-27T17:58:50+00:00
https://github.com/seraphis-migration/wallet3/issues/62

## DangerousFreedom1984 | 2023-10-28T22:39:13+00:00
I agree with your statement 
> I refuse to accept such "mixed" PRs. This would mean this has to go through the Seraphis library first and then find its way into the Seraphis wallet branch with a merge from there.

for all seraphis_* folders except the seraphis_mocks.

Everything under the seraphis_mocks is temporary and used only for unit_tests. Koe already did a great work writing all these mock functions but they are not supposed to be permanent as far as I understand (though they are close to it). Otherwise they wouldnt be living under the mock folder. In this specific case, we are missing a function that creates a seraphis transaction and that would be part of the wallet. Since we dont have it yet (in the final form) we can do whatever we want with the mock files to test other components.


## DangerousFreedom1984 | 2023-10-28T22:41:14+00:00
I agree with your proposals to sane this issue. I have modified the mock and PRed into the seraphis_lib (just waiting to be accepted so the tests may fail for now). Another solution would be to move this function to a proto transactions_handling.cpp file under the seraphis_wallet for transaction handling like the work package 3 proposed [here](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/wallet3/issues/53). Maybe this is the best solution to start moving things forward in this direction but that would also imply making the following structs (jamtis_mock_keys, legacy_mock_keys, MockLedgerContext) into something production ready. It is a task waiting to be picked up.

Just a general thought though, the seraphis_lib has not received such a detailed scrunity yet. A light piecewise PR as we are trying to do with the seraphis_wallet has not yet been done from the seraphis_lib to the monero code. I assume also that it would not be possible to break it file by file as they are very intertwined.


## DangerousFreedom1984 | 2023-10-28T22:41:39+00:00
You are right. Thanks.

## DangerousFreedom1984 | 2023-10-28T22:42:47+00:00
I believe that an even higher level discussion would be: what files the wallet should create? So far I believe we decided for isolating the .keys from everything else (so it could be managed by key managers). But what is everything else? Should the TransactionHistory be saved together with the EnoteStore and all the other wallet parameters? Should they have different files?
For the moment I will comment the functions to save/load this content to/from a file and delete the encrypt_file.h but the serialization could still be done if we decide to save it with other things later.


## DangerousFreedom1984 | 2023-10-28T22:43:40+00:00
Thanks.

## DangerousFreedom1984 | 2023-10-28T22:53:43+00:00
Regarding the `TransactionStore` and the `TransactionHistory`, I do believe it is better to keep it separated as it is now because it is cleaner to de/serialize and if things scale or other things are added to this component then it would be even cleaner and simpler to have it in a separated struct. I might be wrong though. Right now we just have one private variable which is the `TransactionStore` so it seems that I'm complicating things but in the future if more variables are added we might not want de/serialize them and it might be cleaner to have it this way.


## DangerousFreedom1984 | 2023-10-28T22:53:55+00:00
Agree.

## DangerousFreedom1984 | 2023-10-28T22:56:05+00:00
Ok. If you are not happy with the location either I can put it in another place.

## DangerousFreedom1984 | 2023-10-28T22:56:42+00:00
Ok. Thanks.

# Action History
- Created by: DangerousFreedom1984 | 2023-10-25T20:56:00+00:00
- Closed at: 2025-06-23T09:05:50+00:00
