---
title: 'daemon: silence spurious warning about uninitialized variable'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1716
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-02-12T14:38:27+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-02-21T09:23:46+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-02-21T09:23:46+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-02-21T09:23:46+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## deleted_user | 2017-02-12T14:57:19+00:00
Interesting. Would this have resulted in any errors or odd behaviour that we just haven't spotted before now?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-12T18:32:15+00:00
No, it is equivalent functionally, but this one will be clearer to the compiler.

## vtnerd | 2017-02-12T18:35:51+00:00
Can you update this to a `std::unique_ptr<daemonize::t_command_server>` instead? The pointer will always be initialized with `unique_ptr`, and it fixes a memory leak here.

## vtnerd | 2017-02-12T18:40:50+00:00
It was undefined behavior during shutdown that we were likely getting lucky with sometimes. Or perhaps those weird reports of shutdown issues could have stemmed from this ...

## vtnerd | 2017-02-12T19:20:39+00:00
Oops, I was looking at the updated check, not the original. Definitely need a `null` assignment now.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-12T19:48:11+00:00
I was wondering whether it was leaking :)
I've not investigated though (I mean, the stop might destroy it, I'd need to check whether it does first).

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-12T20:36:11+00:00
And tbh I'd automatically go for a delete inside the if. I'm a C programmer at heart :/

## vtnerd | 2017-02-12T21:48:29+00:00
I would encourage everyone to become C++ programmers in this situation. Monero technically has lots of potential memory leaks because of exceptions ...

If any function between the `new` and `delete` throws, the memory still never gets cleaned up. You either have to: (1) add `try{} catch(...) {}` blocks around every function call, (2) inspect every code path for every function and only add tries around functions that can throw, or (3) use C++ smart pointers and force the compiler to emit the necessary cleanup code. The last approach is the easiest to get correct (and IMO, when done correctly yields in less memory leaks than C when maintaining large code bases), BUT now the compiler pessimistically emits memory cleanup code for every non-inlined function that does not have a `noexcept` or `throw()` specifier. So if those specifiers aren't aggressively used, potential code generation bloat. Great stuff.

Anyway in this circumstance its not huge because the process should be shutting down, but its worth understanding unless exceptions are disabled.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-12T22:22:57+00:00
True. The sad is, I know all that, but I tend to not remember it when I should, due to being so used to C. I'll make it a unique_ptr once I've double checked it really does leak.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-13T18:53:37+00:00
I just double checked that it does leak.

## anonimal | 2017-02-13T19:15:41+00:00
Btw, re: `NULL`, consider using `nullptr` instead as it's a type-safe rvalue constant which serves as a "universal" null pointer literal.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-13T19:20:46+00:00
Do I really have to do something silly like: rpc_commands = std::unique_ptr(new ...).release(); or is there simpler ? The docs don't show a ctor from the inner type (ie, rpc_commands = new ...;)

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-13T19:29:35+00:00
Well, I had to do a swap. If there's simpler, let me know and I'll update.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-13T19:31:57+00:00
Can you explain more, anonimal ? NULL is a rvalue and constant. It's typically void* I think, but what is nullptr's type ? I've seen nullptr_t somewhere, is that what you're talking about ?

## vtnerd | 2017-02-13T22:01:48+00:00
`rpc_commands.reset(new ...);` is probably the easiest. `rpc_commands = std::unique_ptr<...>(new ...);` would also work.

 `NULL` is convertible to pointer types and integer types, whereas `nullptr` is only convertible to pointer types. C++ allows function overloading; with declarations `foo(int); foo(int*)` the call `foo(NULL)` can call the integer overload. This also helps with templated types for the same reason.



## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-13T22:41:13+00:00
The reset way is indeed simpler, I've changed to this.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-12T14:38:27+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-02-21T09:23:46+00:00
