---
title: '  p2p: isolate regtest from mainnet bootstrap state'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10396
author: jeetrex17
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- daemon
created_at: '2026-04-01T17:51:29+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-04-09T10:45:37+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
  Fixes #10392.

  `--regtest` wasn't being handled in the p2p layer, so it defaulted to mainnet. That meant regtest could resolve `seeds.moneroseeds.*`, fall back to the hardcoded mainnet seed list, and share `p2pstate.bin` with mainnet.

This patch makes p2p treat `--regtest` as `FAKECHAIN`, skips automatic public seed bootstrap for that mode, and stores p2p state under `<data-dir>/fake` to keep it separate from mainnet.

# Discussion History
## nahuhh | 2026-04-02T21:55:35+00:00
This doesnt work as expected.

example:

when using  `--testnet` the default blockchain folder will be `~/.bitmonero/testnet/lmdb`

when using `--regrest` the default blockchain folder will be `~/.bitmonero/fake/lmdb`

when NOT using the default folder (ie, when using somethinf like `--data-dir testing` the latter will fail with an error of:

```
2026-04-02 21:48:38.803 E Exception in main! boost::filesystem::create_directory: Not a directory: "testing/fake"
```

This error does not happen with --testnet. Using data-dir with testnet will create a folder like `./testing/testnet`

Can you make it create the subfolder in the same way that testnet and stagenet subfolders are created?

(Also, i would prefer if the subfolder be called `regtest` instead of `fake`)

## jeetrex17 | 2026-04-03T10:34:47+00:00
Thanks for pointing that out. Addressed in 3348a4b4f.

Regtest data-dir handling is now normalized through `arg_data_dir` the same way as testnet/stagenet, so both core and p2p use `<data-dir>/regtest` instead of appending a subfolder later. I also switched the regtest subfolder from `fake` to `regtest`.

## j-berman | 2026-04-03T19:03:23+00:00
> Also, i would prefer if the subfolder be called `regtest` instead of `fake`

Considering the subfolder for the blockchain dir is already located in `fake` when using `--regtest`, I'd advocate for continuing to use `fake` to avoid breaking any flows that may rely on current behavior. There is even explicit logic for removing or reusing the already stored data in that dir

## nahuhh | 2026-04-03T20:23:01+00:00
> the subfolder for the blockchain dir is already located in fake when using --regtest

you're right. I neglected to pay attention to what the current behavior was

## jeetrex17 | 2026-04-03T20:46:12+00:00
Makes sense, thanks. Switched it back to `fake` in 7a14dea while keeping the centralized data-dir handling.

# Action History
- Created by: jeetrex17 | 2026-04-01T17:51:29+00:00
