---
title: 'User guides: New location and localization process for screenshots + clean
  all duplicated files'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/1282
author: erciccione
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-11-01T11:46:42+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-11-17T10:08:26+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-11-16T19:10:05+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-11-16T19:10:04+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This is a huge PR. We delete more than 1000 files; i strongly suggest to review it commit by commit.

~~Based on #1275, so please review that one first.~~

This PR changes the way we deal with user guides screenshots (closes #1082). Right now we have a `png` folder for every language, which contains the screenshots for every user guide for every language. The almost totality of these screenhsots are in English, so we have hundreds of files which are duplicates. We also have two folders where English screenshots are stored: `/_i18n/en/user-guides/png` and `/resources/user-guides/png`. These two folders were serving the same purpose, as a result some screenshots are updated in one and some in the other. A script in `_plugins` copys stuff around and make everything work.

I drastically changed and simplified the system. All screenshots are now in one single place: `img/resources/user-guides`. We only store one copy of all screenshots in the `en` folder and we use those for all languages. When somebody wants to add a localized screenshot for a user guide, they will only need to create a folder for the language and upload the screenhsots (instructions in the README). The results of implementing this new system will be:

- Less files moved around for no reason
- Avoid confusion generated by having the same screenshots in two different places. Now everything is cleaner and more immediate.
- It will be clearer which guides have screenshots translated (we only have the screenhsot for a language if it is translated)
- Removed a huge amount of duplicated files which had no purpose and only generated cluttering and confusion (>1000 images)
- The new i18n system for the user guides (#1270) will benefit from these changes.

# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: erciccione | 2020-11-01T11:46:42+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-11-16T19:10:04+00:00
