---
title: 'cryptonote_protocol: tweaks to the syncing speedup'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1725
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-02-13T19:39:38+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-02-21T09:26:56+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-02-21T09:26:56+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-02-21T09:26:56+00:00'
---

# Original Description
- only pause mining once we've got the lock (in practice, it'll
  already be paused by another thread if we can't get the lock
  at once though)
- do not call prepare_handle_incoming_blocks when we dismissed
  all the blocks, it only causes cleanup_handle_incoming_blocks
  to complain afterwards

# Discussion History
## deleted_user | 2017-02-13T21:58:18+00:00
My mother always warned me about goto's ;)

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-13T23:12:33+00:00
She was right.

## vtnerd | 2017-02-14T01:04:38+00:00
Sorry @moneromooo-monero this just leads to more questions. But I do think its worth getting this betterish.

I wasn't sure what `miner::pause()`/`miner::resume()` did previously (thus my questions), and you accurately responded about the reference count. So the current behavior (before this patch) is that the miner _may_ remain paused across multiple responses, whereas this patch always `pause()`/`resume()` for every processed response. Your comment in the PR description indicates otherwise - did you mean the mining threads won't immediately start again? EDIT to clarify: I think you meant the mining thread would be delayed in a sleep anyway, so in practice `resume(); LOCK(); pause()` may have no effect?

Either way, it seems like pausing should be done after the `empty()` check. But then a `goto` wouldn't be possible because it would skip the construction of `scope_exit_handler`, and placing that variable into its own scope means resuming before `request_missing_objects(...)` is called. I think this is valid, but crap.

## vtnerd | 2017-02-14T01:20:49+00:00
I once worked on a project where `goto`s were banned. One of them C programming types wrote a giant set of `do { if (...) break; } while (0);` conditions instead. Just let the programmers have their `goto`s!

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-14T08:44:20+00:00
The mining threads are still alive when paused, they just don't start another hash in the loop if they see a pause is requested. So, technically, mining may still be going on at the time pause_mining() returns, for a duration of one hash.
I might add a cond var to that code, since the restart is delayed by 100ms or so for the same polling reason.

But that's not what I had meant in my earlier comment: I'd meant that pausing the mining *after* the lock is taken would have a material effect only if the lock too a while being acquired. And that can only happen if that same lock is already held by another thread, and it's the only place which uses that lock, so it means that that other thread has already paused mining anyway.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-13T19:39:38+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-02-21T09:26:56+00:00
