---
title: Add gray peer list housekeeping system
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1600
author: IPGlider
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-01-21T00:04:16+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-02-10T22:50:30+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-01-22T16:39:10+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-01-22T16:39:10+00:00'
---

# Original Description
A random peer from the gray peer list is selected and a connection is made to check if the peer is alive.

If the connection and handshake are successful the peer is promoted to the white peer list, in case of failure the peer is evicted from the gray peer list.

The connection is closed after the check in either case.

Please, check for:
- Race conditions
- Possible side effects
- That the adequate log levels are being used
- Any other problems and suggestions

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2017-01-21T10:56:00+00:00
Why do you want to do that ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-01-21T11:00:06+00:00
A bit bikeshedding, but I'd rather names that make sense, eg, remove_from_gray_peerlist (or remove_from_peerlist with the actual peerlist as arg), also get_random_gray_peer. It just makes it easier to follow I think.

## IPGlider | 2017-01-21T12:15:24+00:00
The purpose is to connect to gray peers to evict non reachable peers or promote them if the connection is successful.

There could be non reachable peers because they are offline and can't foresee if they will come online again, or because a bad behaving peer sent non existent peers to fill the list.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-01-21T21:33:29+00:00
I think most unreachable peers in the gray list will be:
 - nodes on dynamic IPs - they'll be reachable again, but maybe in a long time
 - nodes that come and go - they'll be reachable at some point in the near future

The second ones should be kept I think.

I would evict only if last seen is more than, say, a month.

# Action History
- Created by: IPGlider | 2017-01-21T00:04:16+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-01-22T16:39:10+00:00
