---
title: Dl2
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1809
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-02-26T21:07:21+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-03-04T19:01:22+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2017-03-04T10:23:10+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2017-03-03T06:40:24+00:00
Prior bug?

## vtnerd | 2017-03-03T06:45:50+00:00
If you want to hide everything from the header consider:
```c++
struct download_async_handle_impl;
struct download_async_cleanup {
  void operator()(download_async_handle_impl*) const noexcept;
};
using async_handle_handle =
  std::unique_ptr<download_async_handle_impl, download_async_cleanup>;
```
or
```c++
struct download_async_handle {
   ~download_async_handle() noexcept;

  struct download_async_handle_impl;
  download_async_handle_impl* control;
};

std::unique_ptr<download_asyn_handle> download_async(...)
```

Reason - compiler type checking, and because the caller probably has to selectively free the memory and possibly block if the thread hasn't finished (see below). Or `bosot::future` does all of this for you.

## vtnerd | 2017-03-03T06:49:33+00:00
This doesn't have to be heap allocated in some situations anymore - `boost::thread` is move aware.

## vtnerd | 2017-03-03T06:50:37+00:00
Use can use `std::unique_ptr` more easily, and will be less epee.

Also this seems dangerous. The caller will potentially have a pointer that has been freed. The free functions in particular are dicey, because its race to the callback. A thread could be waiting at the lock inside of `download_finished` etc, then the callback is invoked and lock released. The download thread will free the memory while the other thread is accessing it. I don't think its possible to have those functions unless the calling code can control when the free occurs.

You may have also noticed that this means the caller _may_ have to block if it tries to destroy the handle while the download is still occurring. I don't think you can get around this without detaching the thread. Perhaps you can find something sneaky.

You might want to consider `boost::async(boost::launch::async, [] { return download_thread(); })`  here; a fix is likely to look similar to its internals. `boost::async` launches a new thread and returns a `boost::future<bool>` (or whatever `download_thread` returns). Calling `boost::future::get` blocks until the return value from the thread is retrieved. Exceptions are copied from the asynchronous thread and thrown to the caller on the `boost::future::get` call. There are also non-blocking wait functions. 

## vtnerd | 2017-03-03T07:23:11+00:00
A number of these calls might be better with `boost::lock_guard<boost::mutex>`. There might be some ways to cause deadlock on the caller if an exception is thrown before the `unlock`, but I haven't dug too deeply.

## vtnerd | 2017-03-03T07:26:02+00:00
`download_thread` should be callbable from the existing thread here. Just leave the `boost::thread` in the default constructed state and ignore it.

## vtnerd | 2017-03-03T07:29:52+00:00
Why `ssize_t` on all of these calls? IIRC, passing an unsigned type to `get_xtype_from_string` will return false if `m_content_length` is a negative value.

## fluffypony | 2017-03-03T12:13:23+00:00
"be less epee" should be a Monero design goal...

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-03T12:14:56+00:00
If you mean "wasn't it bailing out on false", it wasn't. But this so obvious that I'm probably missing your point :)

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-03T12:16:46+00:00
Used to be the caller would call an unref function, but now it doesn't: it just has to set its pointer to NULL in the result callback (which is locked by the internal lock there, so is safe). The object is now only deleted by the download code itself.
I've no idea what boost::future does, so I'm not likely to use it here. A type safe type would be nicer, true. I don't have the time right now, but I'll put that in my list.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-03T12:18:48+00:00
I do not understand this.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-03T12:20:46+00:00
I thought the caller did not have to block anymore (it did in my original code, but that made it more complicated). I'll have to come back to this tomorrow and check whether the race exists.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-03T12:21:05+00:00
OK

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-03T12:22:35+00:00
Content-Length may not be known, and -1 is used to mark this. It's clearer to use a signed type I think. Though it decreases the range of downloadable data I guess. On 32 bit, to 2 GB ? OTOH full size is also limited to 4 GB.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-03T12:23:43+00:00
It was really a first test of the async API without having all the cryptonote_core code done :) But yes, it could be made simpler.

## vtnerd | 2017-03-03T14:10:22+00:00
`std::shared_ptr<boost::thread>` -> `boost::thread`. Before C++11 moves there were certain contexts where `boost::thread` had to be heap allocated directly or indirectly because it cannot be copied, but that is no longer the case.

## vtnerd | 2017-03-03T14:14:11+00:00
If the HTTP string is -1, then conversion function should return false for failed conversion. Which should be the same as `&& length >= 0`.

## vtnerd | 2017-03-03T14:15:03+00:00
... the explicit check might have more obvious behavior.

## vtnerd | 2017-03-03T17:55:43+00:00
@fluffypony unfortunately I have added a few things into the `epee` namespace. Easy to spot and liberate eventually due to copyright differences in the file. Or maybe the liberation can be done now - is calling from `epee` into the monero src verboten (a few sneaky calls to crypto::rand exist) ?

@moneromooo-monero  A lock "inside" of the pointer cannot prevent its own destruction because the lock cannot be held during the free call. If the caller tries to "free" the pointer, it can be made non-blocking by allowing the thread to clean up the memory (like this implementation). However, the caller usually wants blocking behavior if the callback has a reference or raw pointer. For example, `core` _requires_ blocking behavior, otherwise the download thread could invoke a callback to a freed `core` pointer. OR that callback needs to cleanup the memory for `core` (which is probably more complicated than you want).


## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-04T10:20:50+00:00
I see how it's still racy now.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-04T10:54:10+00:00
What is the difference between
using async_handle_handle =
  std::unique_ptr<download_async_handle_impl, download_async_cleanup>;
and a typedef ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-04T10:56:32+00:00
Also, what would the cleanup function do ? I don't actually have any custom code on deletion right now, and I don't see what would need adding with this new method.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-04T10:58:41+00:00
In fact, if type safety is what's wanted, I might just do:

  struct download_thread_control;
  typedef download_thread_control download_async_handle;

Or even use download_thread_control as is (maybe renaming it, as this was internal). Am I missing an advantage your suggestion has ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-03-04T11:00:20+00:00
OK, there's the refcounting, so I'm guessing this is just killing two birds with one stone.

## vtnerd | 2017-03-04T13:26:12+00:00
And actually I missed that `core::stop` would call cancel, so the instance where the download thread has a pointer to `core` should have been safe. Although it may have been better to additionally call it from `core::~core`, so that the synchronization is not dependent on the code using `core`.

## vtnerd | 2017-03-04T13:42:04+00:00
In this context, `using` and `typedef` are identical. `using` also allows templates, like in my `span` class:
```c++
template<typename T>
using view = span<typename std::add_const<T>::type>;
```
Its primarily helpful because the C++ template "language" requires nested calls inside of structs. If you want to access a type, `typename foo::type` is verbose, and can be "aliased" once:
```c++
template<typename T>
using add_const_t = typename std::add_const<T>::type; // available in C++14

template<typename T>
using view = span<add_const_t<T>>;
```

----------------------------

I suggested `std::unique_ptr<>` to initiate memory cleanup. So the background thread would complete, but the memory would be active until the caller was done with the handle. If you use `std::shared_ptr<>` then only a forward declare is necessary:

```c++
struct foo;
std::shared_ptr<foo> download_async(...)
```
because `std::shared_ptr` uses additional memory for storing the deleter. I would use a `std::shared_ptr<>` if you wanted detaching behavior - the caller and thread stack would each have a `shared_ptr<>` to the same object. Detaching without a ref count is probably a headache, but I am not really sure.

## vtnerd | 2017-03-04T14:20:43+00:00
Ah sorry for more comments, but I just got a better idea. `future`s don't really have a good way to cancel. But:
```c++
class download_async_handle {
  struct impl;
  std::shared_ptr<impl> instance;
public:
  download_async_handle() : instance(nullptr) {}
  explicit download_async_handle(std::shared_ptr<impl> src)
    : instance(std::move(src)) {}

  download_async_handle(const download_async_handle&) = delete;
  download_async_handle(download_async_handle&&) = default;

  download_async_handle& operator=(const download_async_handle&) = delete;
  download_async_handle& operator=(download_async_handle&&) = default;

  ~download_async_handle() noexcept { cancel_async(); }

  void wait(); // waits and joins
  void cancel(); // tells the thread to stop and joins
  void cancel_async() noexcept; // tells the thread to stop, but does not join
};
download_async_handle download_async(...);
```
Since the class is non-copyable, a download thread will only be associated to one `download_async_handle`. Which means the destructor can tell the server to stop (probably through an atomic), and let the thread exit _eventually_. The `shared_ptr<>` cleans up the memory to whoever finishes last.

## vtnerd | 2017-03-04T16:57:39+00:00
I should also mention that implicit detachment is deprecated with `boost::thread`, and was never allowed for `std::thread`. So I would try to make sure that `join` or `detach` is called somewhere before the thread is destroyed for long-term consistency.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2017-02-26T21:07:21+00:00
- Closed at: 2017-03-04T10:23:10+00:00
