---
title: add the right prunable hash per tx to pruned get_blocks.bin call
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10137
author: akildemir
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- daemon
created_at: '2025-10-02T09:39:13+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-02-27T12:38:16+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Fixes https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/10120 .

This approach uses the already existing `bs` return [type](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/8e9ab9677f90492bca3c7555a246f2a8677bd570/src/rpc/core_rpc_server.cpp#L757) from `find_blockchain_supplement` function call instead of fetching the prunable hashes separately. The second of the `bs` type `std::vector<std::pair<crypto::hash, cryptonote::blobdata>>` It appears to be used for tx hash and pruned tx blob if pruned is `true`. However that tx hash is never used, so this approach uses that place for prunable hash and passes it to the return type accordingly.

This behavior might be documented or another approach might have been fetching prunable hashes separately after the `find_blockchain_supplement` call. This approach is chosen not to make that second call to the db and for its simplicity.

Comments are welcome!

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2025-10-05T06:45:54+00:00
NACK replacing the TXID with the prunable hash, this silently breaks the API of `BlockchainDB`. If we must update the API here, the function signature should be a breaking change so that downstream fails to compile. That, or we can write a new `get_blocks_from()` method override and implement the older override with the newer override so that it's non-breaking. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-10-05T06:49:03+00:00
We can skip the TXID -> tx index lookup by using already existing `tx_id` (terrible name 😢) variable. Tx on-chain indices are assigned in ascending order by 1) block, then 2) txs in block in specified order.

## jeffro256 | 2025-10-05T06:51:41+00:00
After the cursor is set once at the beginning of the loop, we can use `op = MDB_NEXT` instead of `MDB_GET_BOTH` which is much, much faster for accessing sequential values.

## akildemir | 2025-10-06T11:49:36+00:00
So I'm trying to understand this and your  next https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10137#discussion_r2404314336 .   if you mean it would be enough just to do `result = mdb_cursor_get(m_cur_txs_prunable_hash, &val_tx_id, &v, op);` instead of first fetching the tx index, that doesn't work for `txs_prunable_hash` table like it would for `txs_pruned` or `txs_prunable`tables. it gives the same prunable hash over over for all txs. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-10-06T20:52:35+00:00
I mean that you should do a `MDB_SET` op first to first set the cursor to the entry at `tx_id` for the first transaction in the list, then do `MDB_NEXT` afterwards.

## akildemir | 2025-10-13T09:19:54+00:00
Sorry for the late reply. Had a busy week. So it looks like I miss the `MDB_SET` that happens inside this if block https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d32b5bfe18e2f5b979fa8dc3a8966c76159ca722/src/blockchain_db/lmdb/db_lmdb.cpp#L3301 I think the confusion arose from the fact that `MDB_SET` for tables `txs_prunable` and `txs_pruned` is inside the if block. I checked `BlockchainLMDB::get_blocks_from` is always called with `skip_coinbase` is `true` and it looks like the function won't return as intended if that were to be passed as `false` since those tables would also be calling `MDB_NEXT` before `MDB_SET`. Indeed, when I compiled it with `false`, `monero-wallet-cli` couldn't scan the chain. It immediately throws exception `Error: refresh failed: internal error: Exception in thread pool. Blocks received: 0`.

So I believe there is a bug there. If `skip_coinbase` is  necessary for that function to work properly it shouldn't be a parameter? I think the original intention was to actually skip the coinbase tx in each block by retrieving the tx and ignoring the value of  the call so that cursor moves to the next tx when calling with `MDB_NEXT` and that works as intended if we wanted to skip the coinbase txs but otherwise it misses the `MDB_SET` op to those tables. So a fix would be to always call `MDB_SET`and only ignore the value if `skip_coinbase` is `true`.

## jeffro256 | 2025-10-14T20:40:14+00:00
Yes, the `skip_coinbase=false` thing is a bug. I opened #10166 to fix it. Perhaps you could rebase this PR on top of that? But yes, generally, you should do `MDB_SET` once and then `MDB_NEXT` afterwards for sequential keys. 

## akildemir | 2025-10-16T06:55:54+00:00
Ok I can rebase once that pr is merged 👍

## jeffro256 | 2026-02-09T20:44:44+00:00
These two lines are redundant / regressive and can removed. If the string is using SSO, then the `.clear()` and `.shrink_to_fit()` calls don't release any memory; they are redundant. If the string is *not* using SSO, and owns a heap allocation, then the earlier call to `std::move()` will move that heap allocation and replace the contents of the current string with `""`. 

## akildemir | 2026-02-12T13:23:02+00:00
removed these 👍 

# Action History
- Created by: akildemir | 2025-10-02T09:39:13+00:00
