---
title: 'wallet: enhance multisig file handling and API'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/10267
author: ghost
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- wallet
created_at: '2025-12-27T18:42:48+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-03-09T13:07:25+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2026-03-09T13:07:25+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Rebasing and updating #7357 - for reference, that PR added methods to the wallet API for exporting and importing partially signed key images as well as methods for loading and signing multisig transactions from the filename. The development of it basically stalled.

- Improved error handling
- Changed `PEM_read_string`'s return value to a boolean
- Added `exportMultisigImagesPEM` and `exportMultisigImagesToFile` for exports and `importMultisigImagesFromFile` and `importMultisigImagesFromPEM` for multisig image imports. Removed old unclear functions for importing and exporting images
- `dest_addresses` renamed to `destAddresses` in order to be consistent with the camelCase in `pending_transaction.cpp` and zero copying
- Pass strings by const references in all functions except `exportMultisigImagesPEM`.
- Fix a `PendingTransactionImpl` memory leak in `loadMultisigTxFromFile`

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2025-12-31T22:18:46+00:00
This seems like quite a different use case than the existing function, I think a separate function would be better (also suggest `PEM` as the qualifier, rather than `ascii`, as all the formats are ASCII data).

## iamamyth | 2025-12-31T22:25:58+00:00
This also seems like a case where you have two functions living in the body of one function. If you want to share the pre and post code, there are other options than a single function, particularly considering this same pre/post-amble exists in pretty much every multi-sig function, so your sharing should probably either be wider or narrower.

## iamamyth | 2025-12-31T22:30:27+00:00
What was wrong with bool?

## iamamyth | 2026-01-01T16:41:04+00:00
This seems like a case where you could use RAII (e.g. unique_ptr), as I note this pattern in multiple functions, though I don't particularly mind the explicit frees.

## iamamyth | 2026-01-01T16:43:12+00:00
This seems awfully similar to the above function, it seems plausible to me that you can unify them with a streaming API, or by just dumping the data to a string, as it's quite small. 

## iamamyth | 2026-01-01T16:48:07+00:00
The fact that this function can't read PEMs (i.e, you have an export/import asymmetry) seems an indication that the export function, above, should probably split the PEM functionality. But, I also don't understand why the API should support both formats. You're already stuck with image-based import elsewhere, I don't see what PEM brings to the table, considering that the entire protocol stack requires (and therefore implements) key image serialization.

## deleted_user | 2026-01-01T18:00:36+00:00
> I don't see what PEM brings to the table, considering that the entire protocol stack requires (and therefore implements) key image serialization.

PEM was extended purely as a UX convenience for GUI users to copy and paste multisig data over text-only channels. From an architectural standpoint, IMHO it makes more sense for the wallet API to stay blob-based, and for higher-level layers (libwalletqt in GUI wallet) to handle PEM wrapping. Should we remove the PEM from here then? We already support hexadecimal representation of multisig blobs, supporting PEM seems like it's superfluous.


## iamamyth | 2026-01-01T19:10:13+00:00
My comment was based (in part) on the observation that there's already support for hex, so PEM seems pointless (I don't even see why wrappers would support it). I would remove PEM entirely, it'll make this PR easier to review and merge, and create a space for a more focused conversation about whether (and how) to support PEM.

# Action History
- Created by: ghost | 2025-12-27T18:42:48+00:00
- Closed at: 2026-03-09T13:07:25+00:00
