---
title: Make sure there aren't too many threads specified in start_mining
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/1636
author: ghost
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-01-27T00:15:31+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-02-02T19:13:48+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-02-02T19:13:48+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-02-02T19:13:48+00:00'
---

# Original Description
If we can detect concurrency support with hardware_concurrency() then we say that we can't have more than that number times 4 of threads. Else, if we can't, we can't have more than 200.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2017-01-27T14:32:34+00:00
Why is this multiplied by 4? And unfortunately we have been avoiding `std::thread` because mingw32 and friends do not support it. We have been using `boost::thread` as a stop-gap.

There is also a function in `src/common/util.h` called `get_max_concurrency`. That function returns the lesser of `boost::thread::hardware_concurrency` and the `--max-concurrency` argument. @moneromooo-monero @hyc @fluffypony which should take precedent here - command line `--max-concurrency` or the mining threads RPC? Lesser of the two?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-01-27T20:28:58+00:00
I requested the scaling by 4 (an arbitrary one), so that we only reject "obviously silly" arguments, since the number of threads is specified by the user, so I feel it makes more sense to trust it more.

--max-concurrency is a bodge I added to ward off a crash on Mac, which may be either a bug in Max kernel/libc, or monero, and I couldn't work it out. If you feel like double checking the usage of threads in the wallet2 refresh code, maybe you can find what's wrong :)

## vtnerd | 2017-01-27T21:16:06+00:00
I realized after posting that I was taking the "the user is stoopid let me fix it" mentality to programming. I think `* 4` is a reasonable tradeoff. Adding a comment about it will help prevent someone from "fixing" it in the future.

@ashleypt 

## vtnerd | 2017-01-27T21:18:15+00:00
Another botched comment.
@moneromooo-monero I am slowly looking at all thread usage, and will slowly be making tweaks as previously discussed.

# Action History
- Created by: ghost | 2017-01-27T00:15:31+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-02-02T19:13:48+00:00
