---
title: 'fcmp++: cache that blinds branches and outputs in the background'
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/25
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-04-10T00:54:26+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-07-17T03:33:27+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2025-07-17T03:33:26+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
EDIT: on hold until divisors is squared away

- Used a new threadpool instance.
  - Notice how `waiter.wait()` waits on the threadpool to [execute all tasks in the pool](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/3b01c490953fe92f3c6628fa31d280a4f0490d28/src/common/threadpool.cpp#L132).
  -  By using a new threadpool instance for the blinds cache, when we call `wait()` we're not also waiting on the scanner to finish its tasks in its threadpool (and more importantly, the scanner is not waiting on the blinds cache).
  - Note: @UkoeHB 's [async framework](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9337) could improve efficiency here since it offers the ability to wait for specific tasks in the threadpool, rather than wait on all tasks to run to completion. I think this PR's simpler approach should be ok for v1.
- Keeps a minimum number of usable branch blinds cached ready to go.
- It's a little confusing in that the "pending" objects may actually be usable objects. The primary reason I implemented it like this is to ensure that tasks in the threadpool don't need to modify global state, and thus don't need to grab a lock (with exception to modifying the shared pointer passed into the task).
- Saves serialized blinds to the wallet cache so that the wallet doesn't have to re-calculate every time it opens.
  - The serialization approach is pretty wonky because I'm writing the shared pointers into serializable data types and vice versa when reading. There is probably a cleaner way to do it.
  
Pairs with https://github.com/kayabaNerve/fcmp-plus-plus/pull/26 (which I already have on my fork, and this PR is using my updated fork).

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T14:31:02+00:00
Instead of making a brand new type which mirrors `FcmpInputCompressed`, you can write `BLOB_SERIALIZER(FcmpInputCompressed)` for our custom serializer, and make a free function for the Boost archive. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T14:31:24+00:00
Same here

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T14:31:55+00:00
These functions would be removed with previous comment

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T14:40:13+00:00
You can also make serialization free functions here for `OutputBlinds` instead of a mirrored type. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T14:40:39+00:00
Why are they in `shared_ptr` containers? 

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T14:42:38+00:00
Are the serialized scalar decompositions not constant byte size?

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T14:45:15+00:00
Fun fact: with [CTAD](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/class_template_argument_deduction) in C++17, you don't need to write out the `<std::mutex>` part of the type, you can simply write `std::lock_guard`.

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T14:53:08+00:00
Would be nice to have a `void add_output(const OutputPair &output, const FcmpRerandomizedOutputCompressed &rerandomized_output);` overload where you can pass in an already rerandomzed output. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T15:19:00+00:00
It might be a good idea to explicitly delete the copy/move constructors/assignment 

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T15:20:58+00:00
A domain separator would be best practice here 

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T15:25:42+00:00
IMO the number of inputs to prepare for should be dynamically settable. If the thread pool is busy, and we know that we might possibly spend 20 inputs, we might as well use these cycles to calculate 20 inputs worth of blinds. Perhaps we can keep `FCMP_PLUS_PLUS_MAX_INPUTS` as an absolute floor of the target that we shoot to be ready for.

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T15:29:41+00:00
Serializing types directly and removing the `std::shared_ptr` in plain types will make a lot of this adapter code go away 

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T15:35:49+00:00
Okay I do see that you split the blinds up into individual jobs and put the result into a `shared_ptr` and use `OutputBlinds` to hold those `shared_ptr`. Might I suggest removing the `shared_ptr` from the blinded fields here, declaring `m_output_blindings` as a `std::unordered_map<OutputPairRef, std::shared_ptr<OutputBlinds>>` instead, and passing the shared pointer to `OutputBlinds` to each of the jobs? Would make for cleaner code since you don't need 2 types and would reduce the number of shared pointers by 4x.

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T15:41:28+00:00
The combination of the single waiter and a mandate to prepare `FCMP_PLUS_PLUS_MAX_INPUTS` inputs worth of blinds can certainly make things way, way slower than without the cache, I will have to peer over the details more closely. But we want to avoid the situation where we are waiting on work that wouldn't otherwise be done if we hadn't used a cache. Waiters are relatively inexpensive so it might make sense to make a waiter for Helios, a waiter for Selene, and a waiter per output blind. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T15:46:08+00:00
What do you mean by "interfere with the scanner"? Both threadpools are wholly dominated by compute time, and both threadpools used by the scanner and the one created here max out the thread count based on the number of cores on the machine. It doesn't matter which threadpool you submit jobs to, it has to run on the same CPU as the scanning code, which means that the CPU burden is the same either way.

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T15:52:22+00:00
Since not reusing the iterator returned by `find`, for simplicity, you could write this as:
```suggestion
    if (m_output_blindings.count(output_ref))
```

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T15:54:35+00:00
Can re-use iterator returned by `find` here so there's only 1 lookup instead of 2 after waiting. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T15:56:25+00:00
It's probably bad for efficiency to hold this mutex over the call to `m_waiter.wait()`, since our waiting for existing jobs to complete here will block calls to even just *submit* new jobs on other threads.

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2025-04-10T00:54:26+00:00
- Closed at: 2025-07-17T03:33:26+00:00
