---
title: 'wallet: return unlock_time in get_transfers'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2205
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-07-25T15:34:57+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-08-15T18:44:51+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-08-15T18:44:51+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-08-15T18:44:51+00:00'
---

# Original Description
also show it in simplewallet's show_transfer

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2017-08-01T15:54:20+00:00
The will technically be inaccurate with certain spans of the calendar. Is there anything wrong with just listing days as the largest possible time period like an OS?

## vtnerd | 2017-08-01T17:35:23+00:00
Why the cast to `int` in these blocks? It should not be necessary for `std::to_string` to work properly, and it _technically_ is UB here (although is unlikely to ever occur because someone locked something for a very long time).

## vtnerd | 2017-08-01T17:38:17+00:00
I would make the signature `std::chrono::seconds`. The primary advantage is that the precision is indicated by the type, which I think makes it easier for future maintainers. There is little/no overhead to the type since it is a wrapper around an `int64_t`. If you didn't want to use `std::chrono::minutes`, etc, for ratio calculations, a member variable `std::chrono::seconds::count()` returns the raw value.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-01T18:25:08+00:00
Are these calculations accurate? I think this should subtract `current_time` from `pd.m_unlock_time` to obtain the number of seconds in either direction. Code comments where `CRYPTONOTE_MAX_BLOCK_NUMBER` are used indicate the value is either a block number or an unix timestamp. So mixing in the other constants should be unnecessary/incorrect.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-01T18:28:48+00:00
When would this be false? Am I misunderstanding the purpose of the `MAX_BLOCK_NUMBER` constant?

Edit: Meant to delete this comment after I tracked down the usage of the constant. So Github UI fail by me.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-01T18:56:58+00:00
Should zero be a special case? Older wallets do not store this value, and therefore the confirmations log message below will be incorrect.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-01T20:24:27+00:00
This to avoid long floating point value representations.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-01T20:25:26+00:00
You mean because some years are longer and some shorter than 365.25 days ? If so, I don't really care. What do you mean by OS in this context ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-01T20:26:25+00:00
I think you've found it's a double domain thing (assuming I did it right) ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-01T20:27:28+00:00
Yes, this needs updating I think.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-01T20:27:48+00:00
I think so.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-02T09:02:14+00:00
Oh, I already used the max with block height, it didn't show on this comment.
Now, there is the possibility that someone locked for a very long time and we just don't know, but we can't without rescanning the chain. I think I don't really care here.
I had however forgot to take CRYPTONOTE_DEFFAULT_TX_SPENDABLE_AGE, which is a bit iffy as it's a wallet thing, not a consensus thing. I added it now.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-02T09:04:34+00:00
No, it looks fine actually. What do you think it wrong ? It does what you think (in reverse direction).

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-02T09:05:54+00:00
I replaced int with uint64_t, I had been a bit lazy.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-02T13:06:06+00:00
I meant that OSes just use days as the largest time interval since months and years are funky.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-02T13:13:44+00:00
C++ does not convert divisions into floating point. The types are `uint64 / int` which will result in a `uint64` result with a floor truncation on the division. So the current cast is unnecessary but harmless.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-02T13:19:42+00:00
I was referring to older wallet files that did not record the unlock time. The boost serialization code will default the `unlock_time` values on these older wallet files to zero on first load. So when loading an existing wallet, it will incorrectly show all prior transactions as having an unlock time on the genesis block. The log message below will then print an incorrect confirmations message. Treating zero as a special do-not-display-anything-case seems acceptable since no one will have an unlocked output on the genesis block.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-02T13:33:13+00:00
You are correct. I looked at `blockchain.cpp` and realized that the unlock_time was not taken directly, and instead the block interval target was added to it as a "fudge" factor (not sure what to call it) -> I thought `unlock_time` would be taken directly based on the comment, but I failed to read the actual line of code below that.

The one somewhat iffy part is that the time interval is still approximate due to the probabilistic nature of block times and system clocks of miners. Extreme bikeshedding, but perhaps the word "approximately" should be added ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-02T13:48:24+00:00
The code uses the max of unlock time and tx block height, so it will show the correct unlock time (except if that tx actually had an unlock time in the future, but those are probably very rare). The default unlock time on the chain is 0 if there is none.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-02T15:51:41+00:00
I need to stop responding so quickly, that max line was just 2 lines below this (so it won't report as being on the genesis block). Still an inaccuracy without the special zero case (which is why initially flagged it). I am not sure how many people use the unlock timestamp feature. It probably isn't many, and when it does happen it is just an annoyingly incorrect message. And if the default is zero to signal `block_height + current` its not possible to know which case without using `boost::optional` for the "upgrade" path. Probably not worth it.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-02T16:20:03+00:00
Well, the upgrade path could use ffff...ffff as a "dunno" value too. I'm starting to kinda move over to your side here.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-05T16:07:16+00:00
But ffff.ffff is also valid, technically. I think I'll leave it as is. A chain rescan is all that's needed to get the correct values anyway.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-25T15:34:57+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-08-15T18:44:51+00:00
