---
title: 'Docs: add C4 and C4 addendum'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2174
author: anonimal
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-07-15T22:59:21+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-09-18T23:59:41+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-09-18T11:14:38+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-09-18T11:14:38+00:00'
---

# Original Description
As discussed in `#monero-dev`, inspired by https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/292#issuecomment-315559220.

IIRC, @moneromooo-monero may also want revisions to the existing C4.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T07:38:36+00:00
Let's put the actual one in this too

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T07:39:43+00:00
This enforces the use of the same software for both the source repo and bug tracker, for no reason except for apparent convenience

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T07:40:08+00:00
If this is going to lead to some massive reformatting patches, I object.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T07:40:34+00:00
Too restrictive

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T07:41:23+00:00
Why not ? This prevents the reuse of other BSD style code if needed.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T07:43:13+00:00
Objectionable

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T07:44:02+00:00
Too restrictive: it stymies the tracking of the process of documentation and proof

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T07:44:57+00:00
Is github implementing pull requests as issues ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T07:45:23+00:00
Too few days (unless urgent)

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T07:45:45+00:00
Objectionable

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T07:46:20+00:00
I want a delay so it can be reviewed without having to check github every day. Some reviews take days.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T07:49:30+00:00
I don't understand that whole set about stable releases. Is it just an alternative to branching master for a release ? If so, it seems overcomplicated, and the only reason I can see for this is the ability for a non maintainer to apply any subsequent patches on that pseudo-branch, but we don't want some random doing so for obvious reasons.

## hyc | 2017-07-16T13:47:23+00:00
Contributions should always be submitted by the original author, otherwise you are vulnerable to SCO-vs-Unix style litigation. Authors should always explicitly agree to the Project's licensing terms, for the same reason. See OpenLDAP's IPR guidelines, for example http://www.openldap.org/devel/contributing.html

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-16T16:19:05+00:00
Doesn't this defeat a lot of the point of BSD style code ? It's supposed to be copiable in other BSD style code. This restriction prevents this.

## hyc | 2017-07-16T18:56:28+00:00
Given the possibility of litigation, seems better safe than sorry. I suppose if you can show that your contribution is already under BSD-style license it may be OK but you'd still have to declare the original author etc.

## anonimal | 2017-07-17T21:59:53+00:00
>SHOULD   This word, or the adjective "RECOMMENDED", mean that there
   may exist valid reasons in particular circumstances to ignore a
   particular item, but the full implications must be understood and
   carefully weighed before choosing a different course.

Nope, no massive reformatting patches.

## anonimal | 2017-07-17T22:00:21+00:00
Ok.

## anonimal | 2017-07-17T22:12:40+00:00
>or equivalent

We could use Trac instead.

## anonimal | 2017-07-17T22:16:53+00:00
I think this is mandatory for maintainers but not for contributors. I'll add a line for contributors: `SHOULD` have a Platform account and `MAY` use their real name or a well-known alias.

## anonimal | 2017-07-17T22:21:46+00:00
This line may have been implemented to aid in mitigating any fallout from spam, FUD, and/or trolling. The line will need some re-wording/clarifying.

## anonimal | 2017-07-17T22:42:18+00:00
>Is it just an alternative to branching master for a release ?

I don't think this line applies to this project's workflow. Will remove.

## iamsmooth | 2017-07-17T23:32:29+00:00
Also 'clearly documented guidelines' is open in scope and content. Such 'guidelines' could allow for variation in formatting (and not requiring reformatting). In fact, guidelines could  explicitly discourage/disallow such reformatting patches.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-18T08:01:43+00:00
Does Trac do repo hosting ? In any case, this is not responsive to the comment, which was that the language mandates using the same platform for repo hosting and bug tracking. Which is usually what we'll want anyway, but why mandate it in the first place ? It seems like a stupid thing to mandate before we're faced with a decision about what to use for hosting and bug tracking and before we've looked at what exists (and will exist if/when we need/want to change).

## anonimal | 2017-07-18T18:48:35+00:00
>The project SHALL use the git distributed revision control system.

git; check.

>The project SHALL be hosted on github.com or equivalent, herein called the "Platform".
>or equivalent
>>This enforces the use of the same software for both the source repo and bug tracker
>>same software for both the source repo and bug tracker
>>In any case, this is not responsive to the comment

Yes, this was responsive to the comment. Same software? No. Trac or "equivalent" does not imply git. Same hosting platform for both source and issue tracker? That depends on the definition of both ["equivalent"](https://git.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/GitHosting) and "hosted". Hosting a vanilla git repo and Trac on the same machine would be the "Platform" and we would still use the Platform issue tracker (in this case, Trac).

A simple amendment to the last line could clarify any confusion.

## deleted_user | 2017-09-10T15:35:05+00:00
You should remove the extraneous 'of' after the close of the parentheses to be grammatically correct

## anonimal | 2017-09-12T01:57:01+00:00
Link/resource proving that it's grammatically incorrect?

## hyc | 2017-09-12T02:01:11+00:00
It's obviously incorrect. Just like the misspelled "reasonbly" at the end of the sentence.

## anonimal | 2017-09-12T02:12:11+00:00
>s/of//

I know you two are across the pond, just asking for clarification since there are differences between British and American English.

>s/reasonbly/reasonably/

Yes, well the perils of doing *everything* with vim.

## hyc | 2017-09-12T02:23:02+00:00
Whenever confronted with this type of situation that you're uncertain of, break it down and eliminate all the prepositional phrases to simplify the sentence and see if what's left still makes sense:

> Users shall not log any solutions to problems

Yes, the above makes sense, but now there's a whole ton of extraneous text that didn't contribute to the sentence at all.

> Users shall not log any solutions to problems which are not explicitly documented

Makes a whole lot more sense, and actually uses all of the content.


## anonimal | 2017-09-12T02:35:15+00:00
>you're uncertain of

I was never uncertain.

>>http://www.grammar-quizzes.com/clauses-8.html#ofwhichclause
>>Of which replaces the subject —genitive noun or pronoun— in the modifying clause, which is placed after the inanimate noun that it modifies.

>solutions to problems (verifiable or hypothetical)
>problems
>^ inanimate noun that is modified

Quit wasting my time with grammar NACKs that are provably correct.

## hyc | 2017-09-12T02:44:16+00:00
You're really going to raise a fight over such a stupid point?

You're wrong.

"to problems" is neither the subject nor the object of this clause. "solutions" is. Get over yourself. If you're going to pick a fight over grammar, at least learn how to diagram sentences first.

## anonimal | 2017-09-12T02:52:28+00:00
>The project SHALL use the Platform issue tracker. 

Note: to address this issue, lines were amended/rebased *after* this line.

# Action History
- Created by: anonimal | 2017-07-15T22:59:21+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-09-18T11:14:38+00:00
