---
title: Unbiased hash-to-point integration
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/279
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2026-01-02T01:44:37+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-01-27T17:05:21+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2026-01-27T17:05:21+00:00'
merged_at: '2026-01-27T17:05:21+00:00'
---

# Original Description
@j-berman authored daemon-side changes and I authored wallet-side changes. All unit tests pass

# Discussion History
## j-berman | 2026-01-14T00:43:59+00:00
I can do this in a follow-up, but I think it would be nice to avoid ternary operators for this kind of thing, and to use something that would definitely fail if a new type is introduced just to be on the safe side since this is critical code.

I would suggest something like:

```c++
fcmp_pp::curve_trees::OutputPairType output_pair_type(const OutputOpeningHintVariant &opening_hint)
{
    using namespace fcmp_pp::curve_trees;
    struct output_pair_type_visitor
    {
        bool operator()(const LegacyOutputOpeningHintV1 &h) const
        { return OutputPairType::Legacy; }
        bool operator()(const CarrotOutputOpeningHintV1 &h) const
        { return OutputPairType::Carrot; }
        bool operator()(const CarrotOutputOpeningHintV2 &h) const
        { return OutputPairType::Carrot; }
        bool operator()(const CarrotCoinbaseOutputOpeningHintV1 &h) const
        { return OutputPairType::Carrot; }
    };

    return std::visit(output_pair_type_visitor{}, opening_hint);
}
```

I like your visitors strategy when it's possible like in this case, so that if a new type is added, compilation fails.

## j-berman | 2026-01-14T00:46:09+00:00
We could theoretically simplify by removing biased/unbiased from the external API, and only exposing `derive_key_image_generator` with the boolean

## j-berman | 2026-01-14T00:56:35+00:00
I don't love that this relies on boolean logic here. It can quietly break if we add  a new output type. That's a big reason why I passed in the vector of output types into this function in my original impl. I would prefer we pass in the vector of output types instead, and reduce boolean logic like this where reasonable

## j-berman | 2026-01-14T00:58:05+00:00
nit: this isn't sorting here anymore

## j-berman | 2026-01-14T01:00:09+00:00
Thoughts on using the output type here instead? Imo it would help lead to safer code and conveys more information for 1 byte

## j-berman | 2026-01-14T01:01:47+00:00
Note to self: it looks like I can use the visitors pattern here for safer code that breaks at compile time instead of runtime in the event we add a new type

## j-berman | 2026-01-14T01:02:15+00:00
Note to self: visitors pattern here too

## jeffro256 | 2026-01-14T08:12:12+00:00
I should have noted this when I committed: I do really like the `OutputPairType` type definition. The reason I refactored it out the way that it was used was in `output_opening_types.h` was that I'm trying to keep FCMP++ header includes out of Carrot headers (besides basic FCMP++ type definitions) to maintain good code separation. Since `OutputPairType` resides in `curve_trees.h`, I would have to pull in that header in most of `carrot_impl` to use it. If perhaps `OutputPairType` could instead be added to `fcmp_pp_types.h`, I would be willing to include it directly. 

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2026-01-02T01:44:37+00:00
- Merged at: 2026-01-27T17:05:21+00:00
