---
title: Relay wallet
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2788
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-11-11T10:13:10+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-11-29T15:22:23+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-11-25T17:46:42+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-11-25T17:46:42+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2017-11-22T15:35:56+00:00
If this were `::value_type` it would work with maps too.

## vtnerd | 2017-11-22T15:36:20+00:00
`v.insert(std::move(k));`

## vtnerd | 2017-11-22T15:36:37+00:00
`for (const auto& k : v)` will work with maps and sets.

## vtnerd | 2017-11-22T15:44:44+00:00
Why does `do_serialize` have no overloads for integers? This is currently being duplicated by the other containers too, at the least they could call into a common set of `container_element` functions.

## vtnerd | 2017-11-22T15:47:15+00:00
This does not include `<set>` or `<map>`, requiring both to be included previously. I would either include both here OR separate into three files `associative_detail.h`, `set.h`, and `unordered_set.h` if the goal was to reduce includes (this style appears to reduce includes, but in actuality does not since there are no `_fwd.h` headers for STL containers).

## vtnerd | 2017-11-22T15:54:17+00:00
There is a `boost::starts_with` with the same parameters, although this is fairly simply. Locked in some random cpp unfortunately ...

## vtnerd | 2017-11-22T16:15:51+00:00
This logic doesn't make any sense. If the user sets `get_tx_hex` and `get_tx_metadata`, this will serialize the transaction twice and the extra "metadata" once. It will then drop all of the additional metadata. Why not have the flags work independently? The caller can save serialization/deserialization time by only setting one of the flags. Or the backend can be more aggressive and only one to be set at a time.

## vtnerd | 2017-11-22T16:22:03+00:00
I do not understand these response flags. If the `tx_metadata` is NOT empty, that should imply that it was appended. This is necessary because `tx_metadata`_sometimes_ mirrors `tx_blob`, which is unnecessary.

## vtnerd | 2017-11-22T18:13:19+00:00
Crud, the type will be `std::pair<const Key, Value>`. And I took a look at Cereal, which has a specialization for maps types so that it does not have to write out the normal "tags" for a `std::pair` so relying on that existing overload would be less than optimal. The logic for this can be done later if/when needed.

## vtnerd | 2017-11-22T18:15:52+00:00
I missed this earlier, `const_cast<T::value_type&>(k)` should do the job (I am not aware of the serialization class violating the non-mutable constraint). A map type only needs an overload for `serialize_set_element` to work efficiently.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-22T18:19:48+00:00
Those are included by the file which includes this one.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-22T18:20:18+00:00
AFAICT, this is so they're saved as varints and not "raw".

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-22T18:21:59+00:00
<s>This is a set serialization code though ?</s> I see your comment below, if we add a pair override we can get it to serialize maps. I'll leave that for later, along with a possible merge with vector/list.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-22T18:27:48+00:00
This is to not transmit the same data twice. If both are requested, the metadata only includes the suffix. Having both can be useful I think.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-22T18:30:01+00:00
tx_metadata_appended means that the data in tx_metadata is only the suffix, with tx_blob being the prefix. This is to avoid sending a copy of tx_blob inside tx_metadata. Admittedly, it may be a bit weird as an api...

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-22T18:37:40+00:00
Oh I see, you'd add an override for pair ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-22T20:45:55+00:00
Hmm, I think I misunderstood you. I don't know why this is not done generically.

## vtnerd | 2017-11-22T20:57:19+00:00
Yes, I was wondering why this behavior is only used for containers. To keep standard fields faster, but compact integer arrays?

## stoffu | 2017-11-23T06:02:11+00:00
~~2017 only, perhaps?~~
https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2134/files#r152916607
> This one copies substantial code from vector, so it is really 2014-2017

## stoffu | 2017-11-23T06:15:13+00:00
This `const_cast` seems unnecessary since `ptx_vector` is not `const` already.

## stoffu | 2017-11-23T06:20:35+00:00
Should be cast to a reference: `const_cast<typename T::key_type&>` - otherwise I get a compile error.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-23T10:06:17+00:00
I made it const, as it should logically be.

## stoffu | 2017-11-23T10:17:51+00:00
I see the change `for (const auto & ptx : ptx_vector)` in the other parts of this patch, but for this particular section `ptx_vector` is non-`const` which is necessary due to `m_wallet->commit_tx(ptx_vector);`.
Anyway, not a big deal at all, I just got curious.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-23T12:00:15+00:00
Oh, I see now. Done.

## stoffu | 2017-11-23T14:51:37+00:00
After a second thought, I’m also getting confused (despite having approved). So this code stores the tx blob part and the suffix metadata part (which together form `pending_tx`) separately into `tx_blob` and `tx_metadata`, respectively, when `get_tx_hex` and `get_tx_metadata` are both set. Does this mean that a user making the `relay_tx` wallet RPC command needs to concatenate these two strings manually as the `hex` parameter? Isn’t that tedious/error-prone?

Is the sole purpose of this appended-or-not thing to avoid duplication of the same data in two fields? Is that redundancy something that really needs to be avoided?

Or maybe, the `get_tx_hex` flag and `get_tx_metadata` flag could be made mutually exclusive, since their intended use cases seem completely orthogonal; i.e. the former is for pushing the tx blob directly to a daemon, while the latter is for letting the wallet handle the actual commit of a tx sometime later than the `transfer` command.

## vtnerd | 2017-11-24T12:58:02+00:00
D'oh, I thought the `std::string::substr` behavior was the opposite (return `0` to `pos`). A small optimization, `std::string::erase` will do a `memmove` instead of a new buffer allocation + `memcpy` that substr is doing.

I think that either the metadata blob should _never_ contain the `tx` field (which sort of ruins the serialization of `pending_tx`) OR that the field should always be serialized with the metadata blob. The caller can decide if they want to lower their bandwidth by toggling the two available flags. I think the long-term maintenance effort will be easier than the currently "unique" implementation.

## stoffu | 2017-11-24T13:06:00+00:00
Sorry to poke around, but you commented in https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2134/files#r152916607:
> This one copies substantial code from vector, so it is really 2014-2017

## vtnerd | 2017-11-24T13:06:31+00:00
Yes I know. My comment was about how this file cannot be included in isolation - `<set>` and `<map>` must be included first. I would add those includes at the top; this is standard C++ practice, and there is currently no way to use the file without including them anyway. 

Also, the files can be re-arranged so that `serialization.h` does not bring additional container headers and serialization headers. Any file that needs serialization drags in more headers than necessary. Changing this would be a deviation from the current "style" so perhaps this is best left for another patch.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-24T13:13:55+00:00
Yes, the strings have to be concatenated if both outputs are requested. It might be error prone, but certainly not tedious since it's all automated. Unless you do RPC via curl and do all that manually, but that's certainly not the intent of RPC.

Redundancy is the only reason I did this. If it's deemed to not be a problem, I can remove it. It felt wasteful, but then I suppose it's just one single tx so may not be that bad after all. So if you think it's best to remove the append code, I'll do that (and get both data in their entirety if requested, even if that means duplication).

The flags are mutually exclusive only if you use them that way. I would not think someone wanting to commit a tx later would never want to have the complete tx too.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-24T13:44:22+00:00
I'll think of that when I try to merge those later.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-24T13:45:11+00:00
Yes, I made the requested change without really thinking at the time. Thanks.

## stoffu | 2017-11-24T14:02:07+00:00
Thanks. I'm fine with what you implemented.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-24T15:20:25+00:00
Actually, these files will only be included to serialize a field of that type, so the header will already be included. If I get to merge those later, avoiding including the container headers would allow not including the unneeded ones (ie, if you want to serialize a list, you've already included list and don't really want vector included).

## vtnerd | 2017-11-29T15:22:23+00:00
Crap I missed this before it got merged ... sorry, I think this format is going to cause future maintenance headaches. Primarily because there are now additional field(s) to indicate how to parse other fields. I stated in another comment - there are two flags set by the RPC client already. The client can set the tx flag to false to reduce redundant information sent. And older clients will already have the metadata flag set to false anyway. I think its a win just to remove that `std::vector<bool>` now being sent in the RPC.

I'm going to open a PR and start a discussion specifically on that topic. On a related note, these binary-hex fields are a pain if you do not want to use the monero C++ libs directly, because the format is ill-specified.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-11T10:13:10+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-11-25T17:46:42+00:00
