---
title: RPC Add cross origin resource sharing support
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2723
author: Timo614
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-10-24T15:42:59+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-10-31T18:39:43+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-10-31T18:38:50+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-10-31T18:38:50+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This branch adds a new RPC configuration option `--rpc-access-control-origins` which takes a comma separated list of accepted domains. I added support for the CORS preflight header and the logic works by returning the CORS headers if the Origin header is passed in and it matches an one of the passed domains. As per CORS recommendations if it doesn't match I don't return the header (versus null) and it fails in the browser as it's missing the CORS headers. I only used the CORS headers which seemed appropriate here.

The configuration option forces `--rpc-login` to also have been set. This is to prevent a user from exposing this interface without authentication.

I didn't add support for the wildcard feature of CORS as it seems to be defeating the associated issue's desire to keep this a whitelist. I could add it pretty easily if there's value there.

I have the RPC configuration store the list of accepted domains which is then passed into the http server initialization. This is then used later when the headers are returned by checking against the value of the request origin header.

I took a quick look at the tests as well and from what I could tell there weren't any specific to headers, etc. being returned so I opted not to add anything there given the test run times. If there's value in adding one though I can spend some time looking into it just didn't seem worth it if it was going to just bloat the tests.

Please let me know if there's anything I can do to improve the C++ here. I've worked in C# and ruby professionally but newer to C++. I tried to reference the boost documentation where I could to make sure the code was of high quality but any advice for changes would be welcome.

Thanks!

References: #2408 
References: #1677

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2017-10-26T14:36:52+00:00
Move this to the cpp, it brings in lots of additional headers.

## vtnerd | 2017-10-26T14:37:50+00:00
I would make this a `std::vector`. The contents do not change. `std::vector` gets slightly better cache locality, and uses slightly less overall memory.

## vtnerd | 2017-10-26T14:40:58+00:00
A nitpick, but I've been trying to update these files as-I-go to not use `std::string::operator+` (with the exception of initialization / configuration code which only runs once anyway). The style here looks cleaner, but typically allocates a temporary string object that gets immediately destroyed. If this line were broken into three separate `std::string::operator+=` no temporary string is ever created.

## vtnerd | 2017-10-26T14:44:33+00:00
I would take this by-value and then do a move. Currently the line calling this function is _not_ moving the data but covertly copying the data since its being told to bind to a `const &`.

## vtnerd | 2017-10-26T14:45:17+00:00
If you change the above to a by-value, then do a move here. Otherwise leave this line unchanged.

## vtnerd | 2017-10-26T15:14:20+00:00
I would use `std::locale::classic()` here; the user can only specify ASCII regardless of their locale/language settings. Unfortunately as mentioned above, the classic C locale is not guaranteed by the specification to be ASCII compatible. This seems rare - @hyc ? The alternative is to catch whitespace on your own.

## vtnerd | 2017-10-26T15:21:15+00:00
A couple of thoughts:
- This can easily be made into logarithmic bounded searching. 
- This search should probably be case insensitive.

The first can be achieved by converting the container to a `std::vector` (see above), doing a `std::sort` in the init function, and then using `std::binary_search` instead of `std::find`. Unfortunately this will result in more comparisons in some situations when the `std::vector` is small. But the user can specify lots of domains with less impact on performance. Just something to consider.

The second can be done using [`boost::iequals`](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_60_0/doc/html/boost/algorithm/iequals.html) (if linear) or [`boost::ilexicographical_compare`](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_60_0/doc/html/boost/algorithm/ilexicographical_compare.html) (if binary_search). I would recommend using `std::locale::classic()` which is (probably always) going to return an ASCII compatible locale. Unfortunately, this is not required by the specification (I just read it, boo), but hand-rolling this is easy with ASCII:
```c++
const auto isupper = [](char value) noexcept {
    return 65 <= value && value <= 90; 
};
const auto iless = [](char left, char right) noexcept {
    return (isupper(left) ? (left + 32) : left) < (isupper(right) ? (right + 32) : right);
};
const auto iless_string = [] (const std::string& left, const std::string& right) {
    return std::lexicographical_compare(
        left.begin(), left.end(), right.begin(), right.end(), iless
    );
};
const auto& origins = m_config.m_access_control_origins;
if (std::binary_search(origins.begin(), origins.end(), iless_string)) {
   ...
}
```
Of course, you would have to sort using the same method, so these C++ lambdas may have to be made into callable structs for use in both situations.

It looks like subdomain matching is not expected by CORS. Is that true? The entire protocol + domain + port must always be specified?


## vtnerd | 2017-10-26T15:24:43+00:00
I tihnk should be removed, see above.

## vtnerd | 2017-10-26T15:29:38+00:00
The HTTP server is used for more than just the JSON-RPC map. So the `handle_request` function above should never be called with `http_method_options` since there is never supposed to be a response. Instead, populate `response` with the necessary information (`200 OK`, etc), and then pass it to `get_response_header`.

EDIT: I obviously meant there is not supposed to be a response to the HTTP options method.

## Timo614 | 2017-10-27T14:30:57+00:00
> If the value of the Origin header is not a case-sensitive match for any of the values in list of origins, do not set any additional headers and terminate this set of steps.

From https://www.w3.org/TR/cors/#resource-requests so I think it's supposed to be case sensitive. 

> Two origins are "the same" if, and only if, they are identical.  In
   particular:
> -  If the two origins are scheme/host/port triples, the two origins
      are the same if, and only if, they have identical schemes, hosts,
      and ports.
> -  An origin that is a globally unique identifier cannot be the same
      as an origin that is a scheme/host/port triple.

https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6454#section-4

Making all of the requested changes at the moment. I'll look into making callable structs for this as well. Going to keep it case sensitive for now based on that above doc although I agree it's odd personally that it isn't case insensitive.

----

Edit (10/27 3:30 PM UTC): Just reread the above comment -- in light of the fact it's a case sensitive search you'd suggest I only make the following changes right?

> The first can be achieved by converting the container to a std::vector (see above), doing a std::sort in the init function, and then using std::binary_search instead of std::find. Unfortunately this will result in more comparisons in some situations when the std::vector is small. But the user can specify lots of domains with less impact on performance. Just something to consider.

Sounds good if so.

## vtnerd | 2017-10-27T23:48:19+00:00
Seems unexpected since domains are case insensitive. However, its probably easier for unicode purposes, and clients that send upper case characters are likely rare. 

Edit: I was responding to the specification.

## vtnerd | 2017-10-28T00:06:24+00:00
This change just made me think of some more annoying things about this epee server...

`http_response_info` unfortunately does not have a constructor. There should be some uninitialized value issues now, since the type has some integer members. I think its worth slipping in `http_response_info response{}` on this line which value initializes all members (the integers to 0). I would then add an else block to set `response.m_response_code = 200` and `response.m_response_comment = "OK"`.

Then, there is still one [strange oddity with `Content-Type`](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/contrib/epee/include/net/http_protocol_handler.inl#L594). I would add a `if (!response.m_mime_tipe.empty()) { ... }` so that the field is only added if there is an actual value to write. This would technically be a cleanup of an existing issue, but it seems like an appropriate time to clean it up.

## Timo614 | 2017-10-30T13:27:02+00:00
All set, sorry about that. I ran the options request again before but completely missed it not returning the status code. 

Should be set now -- I also made the misc change to wrap the content-type with a check for if it was empty so should be set there as well.

# Action History
- Created by: Timo614 | 2017-10-24T15:42:59+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-10-31T18:38:50+00:00
