---
title: Improved FCMP++ type organization and dependency management
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/286
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2026-01-29T19:11:56+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-02-26T20:27:51+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2026-02-26T20:27:51+00:00'
merged_at: '2026-02-26T20:27:51+00:00'
---

# Original Description
- Removes all header dependencies on `ringct` and `cryptonote_basic` from `fcmp_pp`.
- Moves a number of definitions used in `fcmp_pp` into `fcmp_pp_types.h`, organized based on where they're used.
- Introduces `"Compressed"` structs that are composed entirely of compressed points, useful for shuttling data to/from the db layer and/or RPC.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2026-02-24T05:06:23+00:00
Why were all these types moved into this header? Is there any translation unit which uses these types but *doesn't* need `curve_trees.h`?

## jeffro256 | 2026-02-24T05:09:01+00:00
```suggestion
  static const ec_point EC_I = {{1}};
```

## j-berman | 2026-02-24T23:17:47+00:00
> Is there any translation unit which uses these types but doesn't need curve_trees.h?

For some of these types no, I just figured it would be nice to organize all the types into 1 file. I'm fine with using a rule like "if >1 translation unit uses the type, then place it here"

## jeffro256 | 2026-02-25T05:54:18+00:00
I think that that would be best, 1) for compilation speed, but also 2) it keeps the mental burden lower and gives the reader a better sense of the types' relationship to its code. If a type is never used without also pulling in some other header, it should probably be placed in that header, or an associated header. 

## j-berman | 2026-02-26T03:22:07+00:00
Ok, in the latest I ensured that the types included here in `fcmp_pp_types.h` are types that don't also need `curve_trees.h`, and actually do have a degree of separation that makes sense.

E.g. `CompressedTreeExtension` is a new type now expected as the param to the db's `grow_with_tree_extension`. Prior to this change, the `TreeExtension` expected as the param to `grow_with_tree_extension` required that function use `curve_trees.h` to do point compressions before inserting to the db. Now the db layer just takes in compressed points, does not do any point compressions there, and is strictly focused on inserting the data into the db. Imo that has proper separation from `curve_trees.h` that warrants placing this type in `fcmp_pp_types.h`. I used similar logic for these other structs (some are also used in the RPC layer).

## jeffro256 | 2026-02-26T20:03:34+00:00
This is probably a good type definition to leave in `curve_trees.h`, IMO, since it is only used in `curve_trees.cpp` and `tree_cache.cpp`, which includes `curve_trees.h`. 

Edit: Actually, it is also used in `CompressedTreeExtension`, but that is only used in `BlockchainDB` and `curve_trees.cpp`, both of which include `curve_trees.h`. 

## jeffro256 | 2026-02-26T20:26:40+00:00
Addressed in https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/286#discussion_r2856674363.

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2026-01-29T19:11:56+00:00
- Merged at: 2026-02-26T20:27:51+00:00
