---
title: 'daemon: Add ability to write a PID file'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2182
author: erikd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-07-19T11:55:41+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-08-07T15:48:48+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-08-07T13:07:10+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-08-07T13:07:10+00:00'
---

# Original Description
The PID file will only be written if the daemon is called with the
`--detach` command line argument and a `--pidfile /some/file/path`
argument.

# Discussion History
## anonimal | 2017-07-19T21:12:12+00:00
I would add error checking / ensure that I/O is available.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-19T21:21:39+00:00
I know this is really picky but stylistically (and in most, if not all, of the monero code) const is before the type.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-19T21:22:19+00:00
As above.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-20T11:42:03+00:00
Relying on the service file to delete the pid file has a couple of issues. 1) this is not cross platform. On OSX I use a LauchDaemon not systemd service for example. 2) this doesn't solve for a crash of monerod or manual stop (so not stopped by service).

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-20T11:46:36+00:00
Is this a bit of an extreme reason to quit? Just because you cannot open a pid file, why should the daemon still not be allowed to run?

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-20T11:52:46+00:00
`is_open` is not a good enough check. Better to use `fail` or `bad`. See: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24097580/ifstreamis-open-vs-ifstreamfail

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-20T11:54:18+00:00
`access` check seems redundant as you check the stream bellow. 

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-20T12:04:57+00:00
See above comment on `is_open`.

## erikd | 2017-07-20T12:19:00+00:00
I don't think so. If the user specifies a pidfile and the daemon can't write one I would consider that a serious problem.

I'm actually surprised you call out this one rather the earlier check that quits if the PID file exists. Especially since its so difficult to ensure that the PID file is removed on termination.


## erikd | 2017-07-20T12:26:07+00:00
That check is to prevent an existing PID file from being overwritten.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-20T12:31:38+00:00
Got it. OK so this introduces another problem in that you are only allowing one daemon to run. I don't feel you should enforce this but rather print an error message and let the process continue without writing to the pid file.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-20T12:32:11+00:00
See above comment.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-20T12:34:06+00:00
I missed the other quit that's all. I really don't see how not being able to write a pid file would be considered a "serious problem". Just report with an error message and let the user decide what to do.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-21T12:12:07+00:00
Why kill an existing running daemon?

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-21T12:13:27+00:00
As mentioned before. This logic to quit just because there is another running daemon makes no sense. Just log an error to warn the user and then leave it to the user to decide what to do.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-21T12:14:25+00:00
Also, you are not even checking the old pid refers to a running process.

## hyc | 2017-07-21T12:17:32+00:00
kill with signal 0 only tests if the PID is alive. This is the way things are done.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-21T12:18:47+00:00
Ah right. Good spot. I still do not think that quitting the new process is right though.

## erikd | 2017-07-21T20:35:12+00:00
Sending signal `0` to a PID does not kill the process.

If there is a process at the specified PID and the permissions are correct, `kill` will return `0`. If there is no process with that PID `kill` will return `-1`. 

This is standard POSIX behavior and is documented in the [man page](https://linux.die.net/man/2/kill)


## erikd | 2017-07-21T20:41:37+00:00
Sorry, I think it does make sense. Having two daemon processes running read and writing to the same log files, and database files is a recipe for disaster AFAIAC.

Is someone *wants* two daemons running they can specify two different PID files (and hopefully also two different working directories).

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-21T20:46:28+00:00
Well no actually. Daemons can be run with _separate_ log files and databases on the same machine. This is quite a common use-case. I can have 2 or 3 at any given time (one mining live, one running the testnet and one debugging / developing on). 

## erikd | 2017-07-21T20:48:59+00:00
> Daemons can be run with separate log files and databases on the same machine.

If they have that, why not separate PID files?


## erikd | 2017-07-21T20:54:20+00:00
Let me re-phrase that. If you have more than one daemon running on a machine then they *must* be operating on different databases and should be logging to different log files. If that is the case they should *also* use different PID files and therefore the behavior I am suggesting is the most logical.

Also, the use of the PID file is *optional*.

## erikd | 2017-07-21T21:01:43+00:00
Updated the help string to mention that `--pidfile` is optional and requires `--detach`.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-21T21:04:44+00:00
Yes but a user who is starting and stopping domains often and often elects to use pid files, may end up with situations where they forget to change the pid file name. Then by your code the new daemon will not launch, even though they may not care to much about the pid file. Listen, I am not saying this is a major problem, rather it would be a preferable and trivial change to just remove the quit and replace with a warning message. The only time I have seen daemon code that exits at startup is when the reason it exits is because there is no way it can possibly run, which is not the case with this pid use-case.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-21T21:07:18+00:00
Yep @hyc already pointed out. I missed the 0.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-21T21:10:14+00:00
Well aware it's optional! Just saying the only reason the daemon should not be allowed to run is a catastrophic reason, not just because there's an existing pid file. Other code deals with those catastrophic cases so your pidfile code does not need to make any assumptions.

## erikd | 2017-07-21T22:04:26+00:00
When the PID file already exists and the PID is an existing monerod process there are three options:

* Fail like the code does currently. This this the "fail to safe" operation.
* Overwrite the existing PID file and continue.
* Leave the existing PID file as is and do not write a PID file.

In case two, if the first process was started with a SysV style init script, that same init script will now fail to stop the daemon because the PID file will be wrong.

In case three, if the second process was started with SysV style init script, using that init script to stop the daemon will now stop the first process and not the second process.

In both case two and three, the behavior will be grossly incorrect, unexpected and happen some time after (maybe weeks) the situation that set up the failure.

By contrast, case one above fails immediately, with an error message saying exactly what has gone wrong. On top of that I would have an real WTF moment with any program where I specify something on the command line and the program decides to ignore my explicit command line instructions. Can you imagine passing `-Wall` to a C compiler and having the compiler ignore that?

Edit: Problems above with SysV init script for cases two and three would also happen with systemd.

@hyc I'd be interested in your opinion.

## hyc | 2017-07-22T14:13:10+00:00
Multiple daemons can operate safely on the same database.

I agree, if you actually intend for multiple daemons to be running, they must each use a unique PID file. It should always be an error for a particular invocation with a particular PID file to have a process already alive.

The daemon is already smart enough to use unique log files if you start the daemon on a different p2p port. So in general, there is no problem with running multiple daemons at once, all sharing the same DB, but each using different network config.

## hyc | 2017-07-22T14:15:25+00:00
@jtgrassie if you're going to the trouble of starting with --pidfile then presumably that means you care about tracking that daemon's lifetime. If you don't care that multiple daemons are running, then don't use the pidfile option. I think @erikd's approach here is correct.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-22T14:28:56+00:00
Fair enough. Consensus wins.

# Action History
- Created by: erikd | 2017-07-19T11:55:41+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-08-07T13:07:10+00:00
