---
title: abstracted nework addresses
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2052
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-05-27T10:41:52+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-07-03T01:08:18+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-06-18T12:24:11+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-06-18T12:24:11+00:00'
---

# Original Description
All code which was using ip and port now uses a new IPv4 object,
subclass of a new network_address class. This will allow easy
addition of I2P addresses later (and also IPv6, etc).
Both old style and new style peer lists are now sent in the P2P
protocol, which is inefficient but allows peers using both
codebases to talk to each other. This will be removed in the
future. No other subclasses than IPv4 exist yet.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2017-07-03T00:17:54+00:00
This function is public (the default behavior for `struct`), which does not appear to be intended.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-03T00:20:21+00:00
If the object is default constructed, this will be a segmentation fault. Allowing for `null` base class should be prevented, or a `null` check should be added. Same with a few other functions in here.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-03T00:26:22+00:00
One common idiom would be make this static function:
```c++
public:
    static network_address make(uint32_t ip, uint16_t port) {
        return {boost::make_shared_ptr<ip4_network_address>(ip, port)};
    }
private:
    network_address(boost::shared_ptr<ip_network_address> src)
      : boost::shared_ptr<ip_network_address>(std::move(src)) {
    }
```
Using `boost::make_shared_ptr` does a single allocation for both the user object and the internal control object (reference count). More importantly this clearly designates an owner (and deleter) for the pointer, whereas the current version it is non-obvious that this constructor will actually `free` the provided pointer. Although the class is small, so perhaps it is easy enough to see ...

## vtnerd | 2017-07-03T00:44:16+00:00
This seems like a bad idea ... why not make `boost::shared_ptr<network_address_base>` a private member? The only functions that I can see being useful are the `nullptr` checks, (i.e. `if(some_address) { ... }`) to check for default construction. Otherwise, why import all of the functions from a shared_ptr into this new type?

## vtnerd | 2017-07-03T00:48:12+00:00
This is a `dynamic_cast<...>`, just do that.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-03T00:48:26+00:00
Was this supposed to be a static function? This requires an instance to be invoked, AND an instance as the first parameter. And should this have `ipv4` in the name?

## vtnerd | 2017-07-03T00:56:00+00:00
Does this work as expected ? MSDN says that this takes effect at the next `struct` "seen", and the GCC documentation merely indicates this is for compatibility with win32. Generally I see this used before and after the `struct`...

## vtnerd | 2017-07-03T00:58:35+00:00
Why the hash? Both of the left-hand arguments are unsigned types that are guaranteed to be larger than the right hand arguments ... just use assignment ?

## vtnerd | 2017-07-03T01:02:44+00:00
What is the purpose of this function? If its not cryptographic, it is unlikely that it should be used for equivalence checks. Was this supposed to be use for hash tables? So that network addresses could be used as keys? I don't see that anywhere ... ?

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2017-05-27T10:41:52+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-06-18T12:24:11+00:00
