---
title: Issue1947
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2073
author: hyc
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-06-04T21:44:10+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-11-04T04:49:34+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-06-24T10:41:24+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-06-24T10:41:24+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Proposed fix for issue #1947 
1) Don't timeout a request that is making substantial progress, even if slow. If at least 512 bytes are received, reset the timer to allow the request as much time as needed to complete.
2) Don't issue a new timedsync request while one is already in progress. The timedsync is issued every minute while an in-progress request can take up to two minutes. If you have a request that can barely complete in two minutes, but a new request is issued on top of it, that new request's timer starts from the moment it was submitted, but it cannot receive a response until the running request finishes. Inevitably the new request will timeout and close the connection, thus nullifying any progress the running request had made.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2017-06-09T16:02:42+00:00
Doesn't need to be const I think, see below

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-06-09T16:02:58+00:00
That const can be dropped to avoid the mutable above I think

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-06-09T16:05:51+00:00
Technically, it should be >=  :P

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-06-09T16:06:14+00:00
Could be factored with the version above, they ought to be identical

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-06-09T16:30:01+00:00
I think this also ought to check m_cancel_timer_called to avoid resetting in that case. It's not clear whether that can be called from another thread, though the lack of locking hints it can't...

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-06-18T15:31:00+00:00
That code seems to rely on another function to full m_cache_in_buffer. I see that's in handle_recv. If this is another thread, this is racy since it can also erase some data from m_cache_in_buffer.  But it could also be called from m_pservice_endpoint->call_run_once_service_io() below, which would be OK. I don't know boost enough to know without hunting,so I'll ask in case you know.

## hyc | 2017-06-18T16:12:54+00:00
Yeah, this is the synchronous handler, which Monero doesn't use. And the call_run_once_service_io does all the I/O inline in this same thread.

# Action History
- Created by: hyc | 2017-06-04T21:44:10+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-06-24T10:41:24+00:00
