---
title: 'fcmp++: transaction weight'
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/26
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-04-10T01:18:04+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-05-15T22:28:08+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-05-15T22:28:08+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-05-15T22:28:08+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## j-berman | 2025-04-21T19:35:07+00:00
Nit: I think would be nice to have a comment highlighting the expected 0 data types: `key_offsets`, `amount` on inputs, `amount` on outputs, and `unlock_time`

## j-berman | 2025-04-21T22:01:15+00:00
EDIT: nevermind this comment

Nit

I don't have a particularly strong opinion here, but I would prefer a failure result of 0 than max for two reasons:

1) I think it's simpler to manage the failure response of 0 and success response of non-0 (don't need to compare against a numeric limit)
2) Some (extremely) poorly implemented wallet might successfully end up paying a max fee with all wallet funds on a bad response
 
 I'm sure an argument can be made the other way, so I don't think it's worth debating this. I would approve without this change.

## j-berman | 2025-04-21T22:37:22+00:00
Noting to match the bp clawback approach, looks like we would calculate the FCMP++ clawback as:

`(fcmp_weight - fcmp_pp::membership_proof_len(n_inputs, fake_n_tree_layers)) * 4 / 5`

And then add that on top of `membership_proof_len(n_inputs, fake_n_tree_layers)`.

I don't know why they chose 80% for the bp clawback. Figure this is worth highlighting/discussing though. Thoughts on going with an alternative approach than bp's?

Also noting that for different values of `n_tree_layers` (not 7), it's possible for `fcmp_pp::membership_proof_len` to be *smaller* with a higher number of inputs. Your tests I believe would capture this if we didn't use 7. So nice :)

## j-berman | 2025-04-21T22:40:53+00:00
nit: considering we're not doing the overflow check the other callers are doing, proposing we add an overflow check inside this `get_transaction_weight_clawback`

## j-berman | 2025-04-21T22:52:39+00:00
```suggestion
    //                which complicates these protocols, and is inherently difficult to validate
```

## j-berman | 2025-04-21T22:57:32+00:00
This reason c seems a little confusing, especially considering we expect `n_tree_layers` to bump to 7 fairly soon, and therefore a good number of users will soon have the choice to use 6 or 7. Fine with me to drop this reason or modify how you see fit. The other reasons are compelling enough to me.

## j-berman | 2025-04-21T23:05:09+00:00
Nevermind this comment. I see this failure response is already implemented as returning the max:

https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/3b01c490953fe92f3c6628fa31d280a4f0490d28/src/cryptonote_basic/cryptonote_format_utils.cpp#L424

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-23T16:36:35+00:00
This would be a good question for @ArticMine and @hyc. I don't remember why 80% was chosen. It should be noted that the clawback already assumes you're adding in the actual serialized byte size of the bulletproof, whereas this FCMP weight doesn't. It skips the separation of actual byte size and clawback and simply linearly scales the weight of a 1-input FCMP. 

## j-berman | 2025-04-24T01:49:33+00:00
After looking at the figures, I implemented a weight calculation algorithm in [this commmit](https://github.com/j-berman/monero/commit/6bced0f311b8161c144125ed59f783cae1b6e4b8) that maintains the following properties:

1) Factors in a comparable scaling factor as verification times, while also taking into account size.
2) When a user wants to spend n outputs, maintains an incentive to create the fewest number of txs to spend all n outputs.
    - Fewer outputs on chain means less chain growth, smaller tx byte size, and I assume non-batchable verification components also benefit.

I landed on the 80% clawback figure by isolating membership verification time, and comparing to membership proof weights. Note that "Padded weight" is `fcmp_weight_base * n_padded_inputs` (or `fcmp_weight` in this PR as is):
 
|Inputs| Size |	Padded weight|	80% clawback |	Verify (ms), l=6|	Verify (ms), l=7|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|1|     5056|	5056|	5056|	34| 33|
|2|  	5888|	10112|	9267|	56| 55|
|3| 	6016|	20224|	14323|	92| 91|
|4| 	7168|	20224|	17612|	95| 96|
|5| 	7616|	40448|	22668|  98| 142|
|6| 	7744|	40448|	26879|	167| 170|
|7| 	8832|	40448|	31935|	172| 168|
|8| 	9600|	40448|	34278|	175| 181|


Note the scaling factors:

|Inputs| Size |	Padded weight|	80% clawback |	Verify, l=6|	Verify, l=7|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|1| 1.0| 1.0| 1.0| 1.0| 1.0|
|2| 1.2| 2.0| 1.8| 1.6| 1.7|
|3| 1.2| 4.0| 2.8| 2.7| 2.8|
|4| 1.4| 4.0| 3.5| 2.8| 2.9|
|5| 1.5| 8.0| 4.5| 2.9| 4.3|
|6| 1.5| 8.0| 5.3| 4.9| 5.2|
|7| 1.7| 8.0| 6.3| 5.1| 5.1|
|8| 1.9| 8.0| 6.8| 5.1| 5.5|


`l = n layers in the tree`

### My analysis

Notice how much larger the scaling factors are for the "padded weight" approach (current PR) compared to verification times. Plus, ignoring the SAL weight + other tx components, note how a user is incentivized to spend 3 inputs in a 1-input and 2-input tx (or 3 1-input txs), since the "padded weight" of the 3-input membership proof is so much larger than the padded weight of a 1-input + 2-input membership proof. The same issue is present for {5,6,7}-input proofs using the "padded weight" approach as well. So I do think a different approach for weighing membership proofs is warranted.

I settled on a similar clawback approach as for BP and "powers of 2" approach that guarantees an n input membership proof will have weight <= a lower input combination of inputs.

I settled on 80% because it's the smallest rounded value for which all the scaling factors are >= scaling factors for verification time.

### Toward the optimal

The optimal way to approach this problem is to factor in all tx verification components, not just isolating the membership proof. Since the membership proof is now by far the largest component of a tx, I think isolating it is a reasonable simple approach that yields a reasonable result.

### Relevant code

#### Measuring verification time

I added the following print statements to `verify` in lib.rs:

```rs
        Ok(()) => {
            let t_start = std::time::Instant::now();
            let v1 = ed_verifier.verify_vartime();
            let v1_end = std::time::Instant::now();
            let v2 = SELENE_GENERATORS().verify(c1_verifier);
            let v2_end = std::time::Instant::now();
            let v3 = HELIOS_GENERATORS().verify(c2_verifier);
            let v3_end = std::time::Instant::now();

            // Total time ignores ed_verifier which is part of SAL proof verification
            let total_time = (v3_end - v1_end).as_millis();

            let t_v1 = (v1_end - t_start).as_millis();
            let t_v2 = (v2_end - v1_end).as_millis();
            let t_v3 = (v3_end - v2_end).as_millis();

            println!("Total time: {} (v1: {}, v2: {}, v3: {})", total_time, t_v1, t_v2, t_v3);
            
            v1 && v2 && v3
        },
```

And added the following to `verify` in `fcmp-plus-plus/networks/monero/ringct/fcmp++/src/lib.rs`:


```rs
    let t_start = std::time::Instant::now();
    let res = self.fcmp.verify(rng, verifier_1, verifier_2, FCMP_PARAMS(), tree, layers, &fcmp_inputs)?;
    let t_time = std::time::Instant::now() - t_start;
    println!("Time to verify membership proof: {}", t_time.as_millis());

    Ok(res)
```

Verification time (ms) is the sum of `total_time` and `t_time`.

I then used `fcmp_pp.verify` from #36 to quickly test verification times for n layer trees, as suggested by @jeffro256.


## j-berman | 2025-04-28T22:11:25+00:00
Ok, the above comment now reflects my latest^

## j-berman | 2025-05-01T19:32:00+00:00
Made a few updates:
- Bumped the clawback from 70% to 80% after testing verification on a 7-layer tree.
- Removed the point about unexplained 5-input verification time scaling, which scaled as expected for a 7-layer tree.
- Removed the point about future analysis taking into account a 7-layer tree. Did so using @jeffro256's suggestion to use a dummy path. I did leave a TODO comment in the code saying it's worth double checking the figures with the final production libs though.

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2025-04-10T01:18:04+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-05-15T22:28:08+00:00
