---
title: Current mymonero API
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/pull/272
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-09-11T03:25:37+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-07-26T20:08:17+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2019-07-26T20:08:17+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
@moneroexamples @paulshapiro

This is a description of the current API as implemented by mymonero and the current PR for the light wallet server. I would like to make some changes for the open source light wallet server, but that would be done in a separate PR for discussion.

# Discussion History
## stoffu | 2018-10-15T03:35:40+00:00
Isn't this perhaps meant to be "Transaction public key"? I imagine an "ephemeral ECDH key" to be the output public key derived using the CryptoNote stealth addressing scheme `P = Hs(a*R | i)*G + B`.


## stoffu | 2018-10-15T03:36:37+00:00
The word "key" seems to be missing at the end?

## ndorf | 2018-10-24T01:03:40+00:00
Hi. It seems that we'll want to deprecate this field in favor of a `per_byte_fee`, right?

If so, we've unfortunately already released a client using the existing field, which we don't want to break. So we'd like to do this in a backward compatible way. 

Since ideally (IMO) we only want to send this old field to old clients, I would propose adding an optional field to this `get_unspent_outs` Request object for new clients to identify themselves. This could just be a feature flag, but I think it'd probably be better to just introduce an API version number here. In that case, the API exactly as documented here would constitute version 1, and a proposed version 2 would replace the Response field.

What are everyone's opinions about this?

## moneroexamples | 2018-10-24T01:26:46+00:00
I think it should be changed to `per_byte_fee`. Having second field, is just confusing and more code to maintain and data to transfer. 

p.s. why per_kb_fee is not string type? Shouldn't all xmr amounts uint64_t be represented as strings?

## vtnerd | 2018-10-25T17:53:18+00:00
> Hi. It seems that we'll want to deprecate this field in favor of a per_byte_fee, right?

I recently proposed an update to the ZMQ call for fees that returns `estimated_base_fee`, `size_scale`, `fee_mask`, and `hard_fork_version`. The size scale returns `1024` when per-kb and `1` when per-byte. The fee mask is fixed for all versions, and seems unlikely to change anytime soon (ha!).

The per-byte is sufficient, but the client would have to know the fee mask locally or some fees will be slightly too low. Sending the `hard_fork_version` might be useful in future forks.

> p.s. why per_kb_fee is not string type? Shouldn't all xmr amounts uint64_t be represented as strings?

I'm not certain why this is a `uint64` field (before my time), but the `per_kb_fee` is unlikely to be larger than 2^53. I'm not opposed to changing it for consistency purposes if its somehow easier on someone.

## vtnerd | 2018-10-25T18:11:56+00:00
> Since ideally (IMO) we only want to send this old field to old clients, I would propose adding an optional field to this get_unspent_outs Request object for new clients to identify themselves. This could just be a feature flag, but I think it'd probably be better to just introduce an API version number here. In that case, the API exactly as documented here would constitute version 1, and a proposed version 2 would replace the Response field.

The server could continue to send `per_kb_fee` for backwards compatibility. I can think of a reason to immediately remove this field.

EDIT: I meant newer clients would ignore this field, and older clients should ignore the newer fields - unless the existing clients are designed to error on unrecognized fields being returned.

## ndorf | 2018-10-25T20:23:44+00:00
That would also work. I thought it'd be slightly better if the server didn't have to bother computing the old value for new clients, but that's obviously very minor.

## ndorf | 2018-10-25T20:34:23+00:00
Actually, just disregard the backwards-compatibility stuff. We've decided we don't want to support the old client after all (it has an unrelated issue when sending transactions). So, we can simply replace the field now.

## ndorf | 2018-11-07T22:13:39+00:00
Unless I'm mistaken, we also need to send the fee quantization mask to the client, right?

In wallet2, this mask is retrieved from the daemon ([here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/8534f71eedbb421ca3e961c5adc96e5048c4e685/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L8404)) and applied ([here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/8534f71eedbb421ca3e961c5adc96e5048c4e685/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L236) via [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/8534f71eedbb421ca3e961c5adc96e5048c4e685/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L8718)) after multiplying by the final tx size. 




## vtnerd | 2018-11-08T16:27:37+00:00
The `fee_quantization` is a fixed value that has never changed (yet). When moo updated wallet2 RPC the field was now being sent to the wallet, so I followed with the ZMQ RPC update. The extra field is pretty simple at least. Anyway, you can do without for now if necessary.

## serhack | 2018-11-18T17:12:20+00:00

The HTTP code for Forbidden error is 403. (405 - Method not allowed). Should we keep 405 or 403?

## serhack | 2018-11-18T17:18:30+00:00
I think it could be more useful HTTP 403. 

Details about HTTP 403 [RFC 2616](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616) :
>  The server understood the request, but is refusing to fulfill it. Authorization will not help and the request SHOULD NOT be repeated. If the request method was not HEAD and the server wishes to make public why the request has not been fulfilled, it SHOULD describe the reason for the refusal in the entity. If the server does not wish to make this information available to the client, the status code 404 (Not Found) can be used instead.



## serhack | 2018-11-18T17:22:29+00:00
Typo?

## serhack | 2018-11-18T19:31:21+00:00
Fixed in #287 

## jonathancross | 2018-12-13T17:13:38+00:00
"exhcnage" => "exchange"

## jonathancross | 2018-12-13T17:21:57+00:00
`binary's` would not be the plural form of `binary`
Instead, should just be `array of binary values`, `array of binaries` or  `array of binary types`, etc.




## jonathancross | 2018-12-13T17:23:17+00:00
RE: "`spend's`": see comment above about "`binary's`".

## jonathancross | 2018-12-13T17:24:25+00:00
RE: "`uint64-strings's`": see comment above about "binary's".

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2018-09-11T03:25:37+00:00
- Closed at: 2019-07-26T20:08:17+00:00
