---
title: 'Wallet: Descriptions through new commands ''set_description'', ''get_description'''
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2605
author: rbrunner7
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-10-08T07:40:42+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-11-10T06:16:42+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-11-05T23:56:13+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-11-05T23:56:13+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This implements the new feature of descriptions for wallets as a whole. A description for a wallet can be set by the new command `set_description` in the CLI wallet. It can be queried by the likewise new command `get_description` .

The recently introduced CLI wallet command `wallet_info` now displays the description as well.

Please be aware that with this code active the structure version for wallets goes to 21, after it already went from 18 (version of latest release code) to 19 by some of moneromooo's recent changes and then to 20 with the subaddresses code. This means that Helium Hydra release code cannot process wallets "touched" by this code anymore. (There seems to be no easy way with Boost binary serialization to make such changes downward-compatible.)

To store the description a new mechanism called *attributes* is used. Technically this is a collection of key/value pairs that allows to store any number of string values, identified by strings as keys, together with a wallet. So far this mechanism is internal to *wallet2* but could be made available in the future through direct methods and RPC calls so that wallet programs like the GUI wallet or the CLI wallet could use it to store additional info into a wallet, without any structure or compatibility problems - as long as they can be expressed as a reasonable number of simple string values, of course.

For more technical details please refer to the corresponding comments in *wallet2.h*.

**Edit:** After going everything through with moneromooo I changed the terminology from *wallet note* to *description* (now with the new CLI wallet commands `get_description` and `set_decription)` and from *extended attributes* to simply *attributes*. Our discussion below of course still uses the old terminology.

**Edit:* Version goes to 21.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2017-10-08T08:17:54+00:00
const

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-10-08T08:20:07+00:00
Can you expand on that ? It seems to be an answer to my "why this weird name" question, but it doesn't actually give the actual answer :)

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-10-08T08:21:09+00:00
This one is missing the restricted flag, and RPC should be generic (ie, pass the key you want to set/query).

## rbrunner7 | 2017-10-08T08:47:10+00:00
Sorry, not sure where additional `const` is needed/advisable. The corresponding methods for tx notes where I looked for guidance don't have any more `const` than this.

## rbrunner7 | 2017-10-08T08:53:55+00:00
Well, file systems on Windows and also some on Linux offer a feature with exactly this name, i.e. *extended attributes*, with name, file size, "normal" attributes like *executable* being "normal" attributes, and anything else that any client might stick to a file and have it stored together with it called extended attributes. E.g. see [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_file_attributes).

I thought this would be more "meaningful" than something bland and generic like "extra values" or similar. Not sure whether I really succeeded however :)

## rbrunner7 | 2017-10-08T08:58:09+00:00
What's the "restricted flag"?

> pass the key you want to set/query

You are right, in the end one would probably like the whole key/value pair storing mechanism exposed, but I wanted to start small and restrict the whole thing to the wallet note for this first pull request. Maybe anyway somebody with a little more knowledge than me would be needed to properly expose this through RPC...

Is this a question of keeping the RPC interface as small and generic as possible, so a special call just for the note is not a good idea?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-10-08T09:17:01+00:00
Replace:
std::string get_wallet_note();
with:
std::string get_wallet_note() const;

And likewise in the implementation of the function. It means this function is not allowed to change the wallet2 object (it only reads).

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-10-08T09:19:46+00:00
The restricted flag is a flag/mode/setting which prevents some calls that are deemed not to be exposed to third party users. I'd expect reading key/values is one of those, as it may contain private data.

About making the RPC more generic, I can do that on top of your patch if you prefer.

## rbrunner7 | 2017-10-08T09:48:09+00:00
Ah, of course, I completely overlooked the const at the end of the method declaration...

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-10-12T20:07:49+00:00
Please add tr macro, as a few lines above

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-10-12T20:08:27+00:00
Here too (tbh, I'd just omit the "description found: ", which is wholly redundant, but meh).

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-10-12T20:09:44+00:00
For the record, I think this whole loop could be: std::string description = boost::join(args, " ");
Not asking for it to change though, this is clear/simple enough.

## rbrunner7 | 2017-10-13T05:03:09+00:00
I see. Maybe somebody can optimize this later, here and in the TX note code where I stole those lines :)

## rbrunner7 | 2017-10-13T05:20:16+00:00
Ok, done. I share your feeling about the "description found: " prompt, which again came from the TX notes code, but I left it now. Maybe I will go through the CLI wallet as a whole later in a little "prompt improving project".

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-10-13T07:47:29+00:00
This is public now.

## rbrunner7 | 2017-10-13T09:47:55+00:00
Yes, of course. I adjusted the comments. It's already a little embarassing how many rounds I need to get this PR right ... hope that's it now :)

# Action History
- Created by: rbrunner7 | 2017-10-08T07:40:42+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-11-05T23:56:13+00:00
