---
title: 'fcmp++: verify 1 batch per thread + even the load by input count + use latest
  FCMP++ lib optimizations [stressnet]'
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/224
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-11-08T00:46:37+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-12-16T20:37:51+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-12-16T20:37:51+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-12-16T20:37:51+00:00'
---

# Original Description
A single call to `fcmp_pp::verify` can use up to ~250mb of RAM* (it doesn't grow much beyond that, even when calling it with a batch of 100x 128-in txs).

This PR assumes the user has at least `n_threads * 250mb` of RAM.

This PR also groups batches based on input count, which spreads the load more evenly across threads.

This PR does not address `glibc`'s usage of malloc arenas, and I observe RSS does still increase in the test i.e. memory allocated and freed is not getting released back to the OS. `monerod` on systems that use the `glibc` memory allocator is expected to use a total of `n malloc arenas * 250mb` out of the box.

________

\* [this commit](https://github.com/kayabaNerve/monero-oxide/commit/34dab2669d54bf92631fa3a2b0b6764254a2066f) by @kayabaNerve reduces the max RAM usage from ~1.2GB (current) to ~250MB. The `monero-oxide` code has breaking helioselene changes, so I think it'll make sense to switch over to @kayabaNerve's fork for the alpha stressnet, then back on to `monero-oxide` for beta.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2025-12-12T20:45:11+00:00
This can cause a `reserve()` call with too few elements on the last batch, which gets all of the leftovers. This will trigger a reallocation. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-12-12T20:46:33+00:00
Same note here if `n_batches > total_n_inputs`

## jeffro256 | 2025-12-12T20:55:23+00:00
You can remove `1 + n_batches` allocations and the overhead of the `std::unique_ptr` deallocs by passing indices of `verify_inputs` to the jobs instead.

## jeffro256 | 2025-12-12T21:15:22+00:00
This method of allocation won't perform well when many proofs have a number of inputs such that their sums aren't evenly divisible by `fcmp_pp_verify_batch_size`: it will pile the remainder of the input counts all up on the last batch.

For example, if `n_batches=5`, `total_n_inputs=15`, and thus `fcmp_pp_verify_batch_size=3`, and `n_inputs_per_proof = {2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 3}`, then the batches will have inputs count `{2, 2, 2, 2, 7}`, when a better allocation would be `{4, 2, 4, 2, 3}` or `{2, 4, 2, 4, 3}`.

Such an allocation can still be calculated greedily if you take the running average into account versus the target, since that will factor in the remainders.

## j-berman | 2025-12-13T00:55:36+00:00
Used a greedy bin packing algo in the latest that performs well. Doesn't need to take into account a target/average

## jeffro256 | 2025-12-15T16:38:08+00:00
```suggestion
      const std::size_t n_batches = std::min(n_threads, n_proofs);
```

## jeffro256 | 2025-12-15T16:50:24+00:00
This is $O(N * T)$, but $T$ is limited to the number of threads. For a real-world example, on an AMD Ryzen Threadripper PRO 9995WX, this inner loop could get hit $192*N$ times. Using a `std::map<std::size_t, std::vector<fcmp_pp::FcmpPpVerifyInput>>`, where the key is `total_inputs`, would make this algo $O(N log(T))$, but probably wouldn't be worth it for most systems. All in all, this is probably okay on current hardware and preferable to the allocation / write overhead with a sorted container, but maybe this performance breaks down on future hardware. 

## j-berman | 2025-12-15T17:20:07+00:00
I think that would be premature optimization. This is not going to be anywhere close to being a perf concern relative to FCMP++ verification, like maybe 0.0001% of verify time at worst

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2025-11-08T00:46:37+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-12-16T20:37:51+00:00
