---
title: 'rpc: add JSON doc-tests'
source_url: https://github.com/Cuprate/cuprate/pull/232
author: hinto-janai
assignees: []
labels:
- A-test-utils
- A-dependency
- A-workspace
- A-rpc
created_at: '2024-07-19T00:49:37+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-07-28T20:57:54+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-07-28T20:43:16+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-07-28T20:43:16+00:00'
---

# Original Description
### What
Adds doc-tests to most JSON types (`{json,other}.rs`) in `cuprate-rpc-types`, with some left as TODOs.

Also fixes some data in `cuprate-test-utils` and types in `cuprate-rpc-types`.

### How
Both `{json,other}.rs` define a file-private macro `serde_doc_test!()` which takes in a:
- `const _: &str` from `cuprate-test-utils::rpc::data` added in https://github.com/Cuprate/cuprate/pull/231
- expected value after deserialization

The doc-test asserts that the expected value is deserialized from the `const _: &str`.

Some `const: &str` are huge so some tests only test that (de)serialization into the type works, not that values are correct, e.g. `GET_TRANSACTIONS_RESPONSE`.

This is set-up as an optional `#[doc]` + macro as to make it more modular. Some types are harder to test and baking this into the type generator macro makes it even more complicated.

### Example
This is placed above `GetBlockTemplate`'s request type:

```rust
#[doc = serde_doc_test!(
    GET_BLOCK_TEMPLATE_REQUEST => GetBlockTemplateRequest {
        extra_nonce: String::default(),
        prev_block: String::default(),
        reserve_size: 60,
        wallet_address: "44GBHzv6ZyQdJkjqZje6KLZ3xSyN1hBSFAnLP6EAqJtCRVzMzZmeXTC2AHKDS9aEDTRKmo6a6o9r9j86pYfhCWDkKjbtcns".into(),
    }
)]
```

# Discussion History
## hinto-janai | 2024-07-25T21:57:20+00:00
Convenience constructor functions for the response base types (for tests and real usage).

## hinto-janai | 2024-07-25T21:57:46+00:00
JSON serde doc-test macro.

## hinto-janai | 2024-07-25T21:58:53+00:00
JSON serde doc-test macro usage.

It essentially asserts a string from `cuprate_test_utils::rpc::data` maps to the correct type/values.

## hinto-janai | 2024-07-25T22:01:24+00:00
Used on responses as well.

I had second thoughts about putting the tests directly on-top and in the same file as the types themselves since it's a bit noisy and makes the files quite long but:

1. There's only 1 doc-test per type
2. The test is as close as possible to the definition site; better for maintenance

I think I'd be okay with a separate file for tests as well, downside is that it separates types and tests and it won't be a doc-test, just a normal test.

## Boog900 | 2024-07-28T20:41:51+00:00
I think this is ok, although the type definitions are starting to get pretty confusing... 

# Action History
- Created by: hinto-janai | 2024-07-19T00:49:37+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-07-28T20:43:16+00:00
