---
title: 'wallet2: fix temporarily missing incoming tx when being mined'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2203
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-07-25T08:33:21+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-08-07T15:48:41+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-08-07T13:09:26+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-08-07T13:09:26+00:00'
---

# Original Description
When scanning the txpool without having first updated the
blockchain, the tx would be seen as neither in the txpool
nor the chain, and removed, so it'd only reappear once the
chain is refreshed, and the tx seen in a block.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2017-08-04T17:57:41+00:00
`m_unconfirmed_payments` is messed up now since it holds either a `tx_id` or `payment_id`. Is there even a point in the overhead of making it a map anymore? Does `procss_unconfirmed` need to be updated with this looping logic too?

## vtnerd | 2017-08-04T18:08:59+00:00
Is the refreshed variable needed? It looks like to reach this line either the `break` statement had to be reached or `m_run == false` ... ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-04T18:51:04+00:00
I'm not sure how that worked before... Overhead isn't really relevant as this is a mostly empty map. Can you expand on what you're asking in the third sentence ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-04T18:56:55+00:00
I think I confused incoming and outgoing txes here. I'll fix tomorrow.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-04T18:59:26+00:00
Odd, it seems the error case re-throws, so wouldn't get there. I guess this seemed to work as a side effect of the confusion above.

## stoffu | 2017-08-05T02:49:13+00:00
From what I can see at the end of `wallet2::process_new_transaction`, the key of the multimap `m_unconfirmed_payments` seems to be the payment ID , so I think it's a mistake to query it with txids in the `for` loop a few lines below.

Also I can see @vtnerd's point that there's not much point in having `m_unconfirmed_payments` as a multimap since the only place it gets referenced is in `wallet2::get_unconfirmed_payments` where its entire content is simply copied to `std::list<std::pair<crypto::hash, payment_details>>`. I agree with @moneromooo-monero, however, that the overhead is negligible.

## stoffu | 2017-08-05T03:12:05+00:00
The `refreshed` variable seems necessary because the wallet CLI and RPC call `update_pool_state()` where `refreshed` defaults to `false`.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-05T04:20:13+00:00
@stoffu I missed that it was a public function (a bit surprising).

## vtnerd | 2017-08-05T04:20:16+00:00
Sorry created a bit confusion yet again, `m_unconfirmed_payments` appears to only use payment id's as keys. The confusion [stemmed from this line](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L1493) which is doing a lookup by tx id on that object. `m_unconfirmed_payments` is probably better off having tx id as the key and payment id in the value portion - I cannot find a lookup by payment id anywhere.

Also, I _think_ [this line](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L1497) should be a find since it is comparing against `.first` which is the map key.

`process_unconfirmed` should be fine (appears so at a glance).

## vtnerd | 2017-08-05T04:21:49+00:00
And @stoffu its currently a multimap because if the tx did not have a payment id, the key is a null hash.

Edit: I guess that wasn't your point though, as currently being used it could just be a list/vector.

## stoffu | 2017-08-05T06:17:40+00:00
> Also, I think this line should be a find since it is comparing against .first which is the map key.

Agreed.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-25T08:33:21+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-08-07T13:09:26+00:00
