---
title: Fix readline prompt when command does not output
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2197
author: jtgrassie
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-07-24T13:57:25+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-08-07T16:22:38+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-08-07T13:08:27+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-08-07T13:08:27+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2017-07-25T04:20:21+00:00
This is from existing code, but marking it somewhere before I forget and all is lost. Ideally this would be:
```c++
std::unique_ptr<char> line{rl_copy_text(0, rl_end)};
```
in case the string allocation throws - there are likely areas where the high level `std::exception` is caught and processing continues (sadly). Luckily std::bad_alloc is unlikely to happen so this is a low concern ...

Also I tried to refresh my memory via Google what happens when stack unwinding goes into C code. Its either undefined behavior or immediate `std::terminate` or ... ? There certainly is no concept of C++ exceptions so unwinding into C code ... weird.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-25T04:22:20+00:00
The ever optimizer in me is thinking about a `std::move` with a last_line.c_str() on the next line.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-25T11:25:56+00:00
This wont work though as `rl_copy_text` malloc's the data and the `unique_ptr` default deleter uses `delete x` not `free(x)`. Thus a custom deleter would be needed.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-26T00:21:02+00:00
There is an underused custom deleter argument that would require a couple of lines in this case, and has no additional overhead (type erasure/allocations, etc.). I think this is the first place that needed a `free(...)` deleter; I added some terrible looking Windows specific free calls somewhere that cannot be reused here.

Edit: Btw If you skip it now I'm likely to do this in another patch and remove the custom `scoped_ptr` in DNS.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-26T11:53:37+00:00
> There is an underused custom deleter argument...

Like I said, a custom deleter would be needed ;) 




## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-26T12:11:26+00:00
If this is implying it would have too many drawbacks, what would they be ?

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-26T13:07:42+00:00
I'm not implying drawbacks. In general though, for this chunk of code, I'm not sure of the potential benefits outweighing soo many lines of extra code just to use a `unique_ptr`.

@vtnerd's initial comment was using `unique_ptr` "in case the string allocation throws". `rl_copy_text` internally uses c `malloc`, which never throws an exception, it just returns a null ptr if it cannot allocate. 

## vtnerd | 2017-08-01T02:52:12+00:00
@jtgrassie I was referring to the assignment copy of the std::string a few lines below this - that can potentially throw `std::bad_alloc`.

Edit: There are a few assignment copies within this function.

# Action History
- Created by: jtgrassie | 2017-07-24T13:57:25+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-08-07T13:08:27+00:00
