---
title: 'monero-wallet-cli: New command ''wallet_info'''
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2381
author: rbrunner7
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-08-31T08:29:54+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-09-20T19:34:57+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-09-20T19:34:57+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-09-20T19:34:57+00:00'
---

# Original Description
I propose/implemented a new command *wallet_info* for the CLI wallet. It displays the filename of the current wallet, its address, whether it is watch only, whether it runs with RPC restricted, and whether it runs on testnet.

When I juggled with several wallets for tests recently I noticed that there is currently no way to display the filename of the current wallet from within  the *monero-wallet-cli* program, and no *comment* or *label* feature either in order to recognize the currently opened wallet, only the address, and who remembers addresses of quickly generated and deleted-again test wallets, right?

First I wanted to simply output the filename as a second line with the *address* command, but moneromooo opined for a separate command. When I found  other little bits of info currently not yet query-able I was conviced and implemented command *wallet_info*.

There is of course already a command to query the address, but I think *wallet_info* should show it as well because after all that's info No. 1 about a wallet.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-31T15:23:53+00:00
You probably want the normal msg_writer here. Also please use tr("xxx") for strings so they can be translated. I wonder whether this is becoming a bit pointless now, but it's trivial change so...
Also, restricted RPC does not make sense in simplewallet.

## rbrunner7 | 2017-08-31T16:05:33+00:00
Thanks for the fast feedback. Almost as many issues as new code lines ... but I'm learning!

Updated.

# Action History
- Created by: rbrunner7 | 2017-08-31T08:29:54+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-09-20T19:34:57+00:00
