---
title: 'RPC: allow binding of restricted port in addition to core port'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2836
author: Timo614
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-11-17T15:48:14+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-12-02T07:26:22+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-12-02T07:26:22+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-12-02T07:26:22+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This branch adds two new configuration options `--rpc-restricted-bind-port` and `--testnet-rpc-restricted-bind-port` which allow for a second port to be opened to handle RPC requests.

Let me know if this direction is unwise. I spent some time looking over the code and this was the approach that seemed most sensible to me but I'm still learning C++ so completely understand if I've done something asinine. Currently the login is the same across both but if there's value that could be split into a separate set of configuration arguments as well.

I was able to test this by using the `/getinfo` call across both and confirmed that `/get_peer_list` only works for the unrestricted. 

It's currently possible for someone to both set the core RPC port as restricted via `--restricted-rpc` and enable the restricted RPC port -- if it's worth it I can add something quickly to prevent that though.

ref: #835

# Discussion History
## Timo614 | 2017-11-17T15:58:43+00:00
I wasn't able to use the `<<` syntax here as it returned an error during compilation related to `invalid operands to binary expression ('const char *' and 'const std::string'...)`

Trying to figure out why (and will replace this once I do figure that out) but just making note of it if anyone knows offhand (still learning C++ so this isn't immediately obvious to me).

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-17T16:15:39+00:00
<< is when the object is something which has this operator, such as a stringtream. operator+ is the right thing to use here.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-17T16:18:22+00:00
That should probably be somhting like "if (command_line::is_arg_defaulted(vm, ...))" and have the get_arg inside the if.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-17T16:19:42+00:00
Logically, it seems odd to call run on a const object. I'd make it non const, it's less surprising I think ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-17T16:25:32+00:00
Maybe forgot a & ? (unless you know what you're doing with copy elision, I'm not very familiar with those)

## Timo614 | 2017-11-17T17:22:41+00:00
Sounds good, yeah agreed I'll switch those instances of it to remove that.

# Action History
- Created by: Timo614 | 2017-11-17T15:48:14+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-12-02T07:26:22+00:00
