---
title: Add various readline related fixes and improvments
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2159
author: jtgrassie
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-07-08T19:19:53+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-07-19T15:24:46+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-07-19T09:52:46+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-07-19T09:52:46+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Most notably is the addition of tab completion for command entry. Also other glitches fixed.

- Add missing unbind key
- Fix colored messages
- Add command completion
- Preserve last command input
- Fix cursor position issues

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T10:43:58+00:00
Is this automatically freed later by libreadline ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T10:44:48+00:00
Could be size_t since it gets a strlen return

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T10:45:45+00:00
Does this need a mutex as it modifies global (static local scope) varables ? It might be that it already can only be called from one thread, but best to ask just in case.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-09T11:46:06+00:00
Yes. From the docs:

`Each string the generator function returns as a match must be allocated with malloc(); Readline frees the strings when it has finished with them.`

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-09T11:47:50+00:00
Only one thread ever calls this.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-09T11:50:31+00:00
Good spot. I'll update.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-12T22:35:07+00:00
Should the size of this vector bounded? Seems like it couldn't hurt ...

## vtnerd | 2017-07-12T22:54:52+00:00
 @moneromooo-monero sadly a mutex does not fix the problem here. The function is designed to be invoked multiple times for a match, so any other invocation during that process will yield incorrect results. The problem stems from the poor interface of readline. A "but it works!" argument could be made, but it certainly seems brittle at first glance.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-12T23:08:40+00:00
`cmd.find(text) == 0` will remove the need for the `strlen` and static variable `len`. `std::string::find` conveniently returns the position of the first match or `std::string::npos` if `text` is not present. I do not see any internal micro-optimization in this overload either.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-13T16:00:02+00:00
The readline patches have been adding lots to RW static memory. This in particular has a initialization order fiasco (that we should be unlikely to hit, but its easy to oops that).

I am wondering if it makes sense to refactor all readline static variables in one class, and then have that class constructed as a function local static. It would be slightly slower since each access to a function local static now requires thread synchronization, but the delay would be marginal and the code would be more resilient to crazy C++ behavior if the functions were used elsewhere for some reason.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-13T16:03:59+00:00
Wait, spoke too soon. This is a left-bounded search, whereas find is unanchored. So less ops in this version in many cases. Really wanted to drop that darned static variable.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-13T16:40:41+00:00
How and why?

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-13T16:44:29+00:00
I have no immediate plans to refactor. Readline has a horrible interface and the statics are needed unfortunately. Further complicated by the fact that all these patches have been designed to slot into the project with hardly any changes required to the rest of the code base (which trust me was tough!).

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-13T16:46:45+00:00
libreadline itself is not thread safe. This completion function is only ever called from one thread anyway.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-13T16:48:43+00:00
You _have_ to use the statics here as the function is called multiple times and you need to keep track of last call(s). Again, horrible readline interface but that's what we have to work with!

## vtnerd | 2017-07-13T18:40:37+00:00
I was not suggesting that you remove statics, just that to re-organize them into one class that was declared statically within a function. The class would contain the entire "state" of readline, but not necessarily any of the helper functions you have provided.

The major part part of the suggestion was a move from namespace statics to function statics. Function statics have no issues if accessed before main during the namespace initialization stage. While this is currently not an issue, this type of static usage is known to cause problems as a codebase is being maintained. FWIW I am not particularly worried about it since only readline is ever likely to call these functions, but I will cleanup this sort of static usage if it is related to something I working on.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-13T18:43:31+00:00
Yes, I know. The static `len` is not strictly needed because it can be computed each invocation or `std::string::find` can be used as I described above to eliminate it. This does require more ops in both cases - I initially forgot that `std::string::find` would have to scan the entire string.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-13T18:45:48+00:00
Periodically perform a bulk erase from the front of the `std::vector` when it reaches a certain size.

A long running daemon will continually use memory for past commands and require more CPU when scanning a command not in the history (linear search). The buffer is likely to be somewhat small so its unlikely to matter, but limiting on history is not uncommon in other applications and is a few lines of additional code.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-13T19:09:04+00:00
Ah but here is your misunderstanding. This vector is not a history of commands entered. Readline has its own history. This vector is only used to store the command names of the domain / wallet and is only added to when they construct (or more accurately bind functions to commands at startup). Therefore this vector is always small as it only ever contains the complete list of available commands a user could type - just the commands, not even the arguments.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-13T21:16:46+00:00
> FWIW I am not particularly worried about it since only readline is ever likely to call these functions

The functions that use these variables are all private to readline_buffer.cpp so I am not worried at all. 

## vtnerd | 2017-07-16T22:30:06+00:00
Ok, this makes more sense. It seemed like readline would have a default history handler.

Now that I expanded the code I see that this is actually duplicating an existing `std::map`. Unfortunate. And `std::sort` + `std::lexicographical_compare` + `std::lower_bound` would be interesting but not particularly noticeable unless one of the apps had some impressive set of commands.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-16T22:44:43+00:00
The variables are private but accessed via public static functions that if invoked during the namespace initialization process will result in undefined behavior. Which is typically why refactoring adds a really sneaky bug - the static function has a hidden initialization dependency that is not guaranteed to trigger in all builds. As an example, `readline_buffers::add_completion(...)` cannot be invoked until `readline_buffers::completion_commands` is initialized. So if a future PR creates a `command_handler` object and calls `set_handler` in a namespace static, the result is undefined behavior. I point this out because I've seen this seemingly unlikely scenario happen before, and so I started using function local statics unless I had a good reason.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-17T01:01:36+00:00
> The variables are private but accessed via public static functions that if invoked during the namespace initialization process will result in undefined behavior. 

There is only one public static function and that is a _class_ level public static function accessing a _class_ level private static variable. As they are in the same translation unit the variable is guaranteed to be defined.

Static initialization order fiasco simply does not apply here.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-17T01:09:36+00:00
> Now that I expanded the code I see that this is actually duplicating an existing std::map

Where?

> And std::sort + std::lexicographical_compare + std::lower_bound would be interesting but not particularly noticeable...

Really not sure where you're going with this. The code is simple, low overhead, easy to read addition to implement readline tab completion of commands. Is there an edit you are suggesting?


## jtgrassie | 2017-07-17T01:22:50+00:00
>> Now that I expanded the code I see that this is actually duplicating an existing std::map

> Where?

I assume you are referring to the private map in `command_handler`? For such a small vector to exist in the readline code I really don't see the issue of such minimal duplication. It feels preferable than to hold a reference to console_handler and adding a public getter to that map.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-17T19:32:41+00:00
The public static functions can be invoked from another translation unit which is the source of the problem. The compiler could theoretically resolve the order in some cases with LTO enabled or by marking object files with memory accesses it could "see" from headers. Not aware of Clang or GCC attempting either, based on my searches. The closest I've seen is a GCC attribute marking priority of a global.  I suggested the change to a function scoped static because while it does require/introduce a thread-safe runtime check, switching between the two styles is easy and the overhead is still minimal.

The situation is similar to an [FAQ on isocpp.org](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/ctors#static-init-order-on-first-use-members).

EDIT: I should re-iterate for anyone following, that the current implementation does not have an issue because the referenced static functions are not called from a constructor used in a global variable. The change was primarily a quick way to prevent this frustrating problem from occurring during maintenance.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-17T19:34:52+00:00
Sorry, I was "thinking out aloud" with that last post - sorting and searching the vector would be surprisingly easy thanks to the design of the STL.

# Action History
- Created by: jtgrassie | 2017-07-08T19:19:53+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-07-19T09:52:46+00:00
