---
title: 'txpool: don''t process txs that would push pool over capacity'
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/253
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-12-04T00:04:17+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-12-19T17:52:15+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-12-19T17:52:15+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-12-19T17:52:14+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Assume a node's pool is at capacity (the total `m_txpool_weight` is right at `m_txpool_max_weight`).

The node doesn't need to process any further txs if the new tx's fee per byte is less than the smallest existing pool tx.

Without this PR, the node would process and add such txs to the pool, then immediately remove them via `prune`. A node could get stuck processing tons of txs that the node immediately removes after adding. Wasted work.

This PR introduces a simple short-circut when adding a tx: if the node doesn't have the capacity to add a relayed tx to its pool, then it'll short-circuit with `m_fee_too_low=true`, a no-drop-offense. It won't process the tx then remove it.

The stressnet pool is well above the max right now (@nahuhh is also running a node with capacity higher than the default). This PR helps keep a default node syncing smoothly while the network is in this state.

I would upstream this PR too once it's undergone a round of testing in stressnet as well.

# Discussion History
## j-berman | 2025-12-04T00:05:35+00:00
It can't throw, it returns 0 on failure

## jeffro256 | 2025-12-05T07:28:31+00:00
This seems redundant given the check in the immediately preceding lines. Also, why check that `m_txs_by_fee_and_receive_time` contains at least two instead of at least one since you only deference the `first()` element?

## jeffro256 | 2025-12-05T07:43:24+00:00
I would amend this comment, since it's a bit misleading (it can return `true` even when the pool would be over-capacity if that tx was added), and the misleading behavior could be guessed by the name of the function. Maybe a better name would be `precheck_tx_not_trivially_prunable()`. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-12-05T07:43:44+00:00
Maybe leave a note here that `id` is purely for debugging purposes?

## j-berman | 2025-12-08T17:45:53+00:00
In my head, I was imagining something like a club that is at capacity and has a bouncer at the door, allowing people in who pay the bouncer enough to get in lol. Another example is a sporting event that sells out tickets.. It's "at capacity" but people who pay enough for other's ticket's get a seat.

`precheck_tx_not_trivially_prunable` is ok but I also like the idea of something explicitly mentioning that it's related to the pool's weight limit (i.e. capacity), because I feel that makes it pretty clear what sort of logic the function will be doing.

How about `check_pool_capacity_for_given_fee`? If you're still eh on that, I'll just go with your suggestion, fine with me

## j-berman | 2025-12-08T17:48:03+00:00
> This seems redundant given the check in the immediately preceding lines

It is, I felt like that sort of redundancy is ok just to be explicit

> Also, why check that m_txs_by_fee_and_receive_time contains at least two instead of at least one since you only deference the first() element?

Because `prune` will always leave at least 1 tx in it: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/253#issuecomment-3628203948



## jeffro256 | 2025-12-18T05:00:26+00:00
Actually I'm fine to leave the name as-is and not get too wordy, just so long as the docstring is a bit more detailed.

## j-berman | 2025-12-18T19:43:58+00:00
Done

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2025-12-04T00:04:17+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-12-19T17:52:14+00:00
