---
title: 'wallet: encrypt (un)signed tx, also optionally save unencrypted raw tx hexstr'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2554
author: stoffu
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-09-30T04:49:20+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-03-05T08:12:31+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-10-15T15:32:37+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-10-15T15:32:37+00:00'
---

# Original Description
@moneroexamples 
This patch makes the `signed_monero_tx` file encrypted, making the tx pusher of your Onion Explorer unable to read it. For that purpose, an unencrypted raw tx in hex string is saved as `signed_monero_tx_raw` which can be directly fed to the `/sendrawtransaction` command. So you'll need to update your explorer accordingly when this patch gets merged.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2017-09-30T08:15:29+00:00
This is mixing logs and message writers. I'd use logs in wallet2 since it's also used by the GUI, etc. Also this file has a version, so you don't need to try several things, you can check the version and try one based on the version (or just reject old versions for something like this, where a single person controls both ends).

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-09-30T08:16:41+00:00
I think saving unencrypted is a bad idea unless the user wants it, since that's the whole point of encryption.


## moneromooo-monero | 2017-09-30T09:36:08+00:00
OTOH, this is the local disk so I guess it's maybe alright...

## stoffu | 2017-09-30T13:41:11+00:00
I see your point; the scenario I have in mind is that the user signs a tx, and copies the resulting file `signed_monero_tx` along with `signed_monero_tx_raw` to a USB stick, which then gets stolen etc. Now the thief can associate that particular tx with the user, which may be potentially problematic. Therefore, I'll make the saving of raw tx optional, activated only when `export` keyword is given in the CLI.

## stoffu | 2017-09-30T14:43:34+00:00
Regarding logging, I was kind of aware it didn't look OK, but I made it so because I copied some code sections from the same wallet2.cpp; i.e. `fail_msg_writer` is used in quite a few places. I guess eventually they should all be replaced by `LOG_ERROR` etc.

Regarding file versioning, I think it's important to retain the ability to read old versioned files, since some users may not be able to upgrade the wallet software installed in the computer storing the cold wallet. I've added a version checking code, but I'm not too confident if I did it right. Your comment is appreciated.

# Action History
- Created by: stoffu | 2017-09-30T04:49:20+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-10-15T15:32:37+00:00
