---
title: rpc get_info add rpc_connections_count
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2753
author: Timo614
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-11-03T15:02:42+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-11-14T13:54:41+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-11-14T13:54:41+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-11-14T13:54:41+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This pull request adds the `rpc_connections_count` to the `/getinfo` RPC command and the `get_info` json rpc command.

This logic just surfaces the socket count stored by the server. I subtracted one from the value in the `get_connections_count` method as the socket count includes the initial listening socket.

I was able to test this locally by hitting the `get_info` json rpc call before and after starting up a monero-wallet-cli and seeing it increase. I also locally created some sockets via an interactive ruby shell and saw it go up each time I did and decrease when I closed it.

I'm still getting the hang of the net code so please let me know if I've missed something or if my approach below is unwise / ill advised.

Thanks!

Ref: #1964


# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-03T15:23:50+00:00
const

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-03T15:23:58+00:00
const

## Timo614 | 2017-11-03T15:40:01+00:00
Gotcha, `const` in this case since the return value isn't going to be modified. Is there a reason why the `get_binded_port` above isn't using `const` here? Just trying to understand why one would need it but the other not when they both appear to have the same sort of usage (returning data that won't change in the context of it being fetched). 

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-03T15:46:51+00:00
I don't know why. Presumably the author wasn't a const stickler.

## Timo614 | 2017-11-03T15:53:05+00:00
Gotcha, that's fine I was just curious as I make attempts to be consistent with existing code. I'll use const where appropriate going forward over that consistency.

## Timo614 | 2017-11-03T16:34:54+00:00
I got the following warning: `'const' type qualifier on return type has no effect`

Thinking it over I guess the only way to have this be const would be to pass it back by reference since if it's an long it'll just copy it by value so the const isn't doing anything in this case.

If I didn't need to subtract the listener socket from `m_sock_count` I could just return that reference and then it could be const. 

That may be why the other method isn't `const` as well since it would just throw warnings and not guarantee someone couldn't change the return value. I could still add it if we want auto complete or grepping etc to show that the desire is for that the value not to change (gives callers of the method a more explicit interface in terms of what our expectations are).

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-03T16:40:57+00:00
That's probably because you're doing something like:
const int get_foo()
but you need to do:
int get_foo() const

## Timo614 | 2017-11-03T16:50:28+00:00
^ Yup! That's exactly what I had done. Switching it to that approach does not cause any warnings with the compilation. 

Thanks for the help! Will keep this syntax in mind with future pull requests that return const data. :+1:

## vtnerd | 2017-11-03T17:09:16+00:00
Can this value ever be zero? Does a check needed to be added here for that?

EDIT: Removed first part, the comment was outdated after other responses.

## Timo614 | 2017-11-03T17:28:52+00:00
If this was called prior to the server's `init_server` call then it could return -1 as the initial listening socket wouldn't have been created yet.  
https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/contrib/epee/include/net/http_server_impl_base.h#L76
https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/contrib/epee/include/net/abstract_tcp_server2.inl#L733

From an RPC call perspective it'll always be at least 2 here prior to the subtraction (listening socket and the connection that triggered the RPC method) but it's not crazy to think this code may be called outside of that in the future.

It's easy enough to add a quick check though and return 0 if the value is 0 (not initiated) and it makes this interface more consistent / removes the possibility of someone using this prior to initialization and getting unexpected results.

# Action History
- Created by: Timo614 | 2017-11-03T15:02:42+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-11-14T13:54:41+00:00
