---
title: Corrections in rate limiting / throttle code, especially in 'out' direction
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2866
author: rbrunner7
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-11-26T15:14:01+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-12-16T21:24:48+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-12-16T21:24:48+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-12-16T21:24:48+00:00'
---

# Original Description
A while ago I noted a strange asymmetry in Monero's rate limiting / throttle code: In "out" direction there was the following strange code when setting the limit in file `src/p2p/connection_basic.cpp`:

```
void connection_basic::set_rate_up_limit(uint64_t limit) {
	
	// TODO remove __SCALING_FACTOR...
	const double SCALING_FACTOR = 2.1; // to acheve the best performance
	limit *= SCALING_FACTOR;
	{
		CRITICAL_REGION_LOCAL(	network_throttle_manager::m_lock_get_global_throttle_out );
		network_throttle_manager::get_global_throttle_out().set_target_speed(limit);
		network_throttle_manager::get_global_throttle_out().set_real_target_speed(limit / SCALING_FACTOR);
	}
	save_limit_to_file(limit);
}
```

And when reporting the number of bytes transferred there was a strange factor of 700 applied:

```
void connection_basic::sleep_before_packet(size_t packet_size, int phase,  int q_len) {
...
// XXX LATER XXX
	{
	  CRITICAL_REGION_LOCAL(	network_throttle_manager::m_lock_get_global_throttle_out );
		network_throttle_manager::get_global_throttle_out().handle_trafic_exact( packet_size * 700); // increase counter - global
	}

}
```

Tests showed that all this "fudging" was needed: After taking out the `SCALING_FACTOR` of 2.1 the throttling did not work correctly any more, it throttled too much.

The root cause of all this turned out to be the following: There were 4 calls to a method called `sleep_before_packet`. 3 of them were not correct, they were in fact erroneous / superfluous.

The throttling code had another strange feature: The transfer limit was multiplied by 1024 before giving it to the throttle objects. Note that this multiplier had nothing to with conversion from kilobytes per second to bytes per second, which was and still is needed. (Strange about that multiplication by 700 shown above was therefore not the multiplication per se, but that it was not by 1024.)

I have now deleted 3 of the 4 sleeping calls and also the multiplying by 1024 of limits.

The result of this is not only code that is cleaner and a lot less confusing, but the fact that it will be possible now to sum the true number of bytes transferred within the throttle objects. I plan to implement a small total traffic statistic based on this in the future.

# Discussion History
## deleted_user | 2017-11-26T17:58:10+00:00
Comment probably not needed as future reviewers will not see the old code or know what this is referring to

## rbrunner7 | 2017-11-26T18:27:04+00:00
Yes, I understand your reasoning; I had similar thoughts. And still, I also felt a certain urge to write down why and how I got rid of that mysterious scaling factor. It was the same regarding the comments that I did in 3 other places "documenting" deleted code.

Anybody with a second opinion about this?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-27T22:51:14+00:00
This belongs in the commit message.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-11-27T22:53:05+00:00
In fact, I notice the explanation is not in the commit message, but only on github, which means it'll be lost when someone looks through the history. 

# Action History
- Created by: rbrunner7 | 2017-11-26T15:14:01+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-12-16T21:24:48+00:00
