---
title: Epee crypto
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2985
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-12-21T15:12:29+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-01-10T17:51:02+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-01-10T10:51:05+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-01-10T10:51:05+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2017-12-21T18:23:10+00:00
This should be an argument to the class constructor and stored as a member. The constructor can even:
```c++
if (!rng) throw std::logic_error{"..."};
```
So that there aren't blow-ups sometime after program initialization (when the first client connects, which is what will happen now if `set_rng` is not invoked). Presumably this was avoided because it requires touching a few more files in `epee`, but this is the easier to maintain long-term - requiring a constructor argument makes it clear that the function value MUST be set/provided before using the class whereas in this patch the  relationship is not made explicit through the design.

## vtnerd | 2018-01-09T23:18:44+00:00
`std::move(r)`

## vtnerd | 2018-01-09T23:20:55+00:00
This can remain a default constructor (i.e. leave `rng` in default state). Its not possible to access the `rng(...)` call currently unless `user` is also set. This check occurs just a few lines below this one.

## vtnerd | 2018-01-09T23:23:56+00:00
`std::move`

## vtnerd | 2018-01-09T23:26:28+00:00
Is this one necessary? HTTP auth is never used by this server, this is JSON-RPC directly over TCP. In fact, this shouldn't compile at all, but shouldn't matter since this is currently unused.

## vtnerd | 2018-01-09T23:46:31+00:00
Forgot to mention to drop this change. The test will then verify that nothing bad happens when `std::function` is not set. It throws in that situation FWIW.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-01-10T00:31:56+00:00
This is less maintainable though, isn't it ? Since rng is sometimes set and sometimes not, which was the point of the request to change.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-01-10T01:58:24+00:00
done anyway

## vtnerd | 2018-01-10T17:51:02+00:00
Since my requests seem arbitrary, I'll explain a bit further.

My recommendations are based on the observation that invariants in code are most likely to be noticed within a function, then class, then file, and then finally across files. It is very easy to "move" a constructor call in another file without realizing there is a dependency on another function call. Typically I will only have an invariant within a single function or class, then place `assert(...)` in the code as a "signal" to future maintainers that there is an important invariant being checked or maintained _somewhere_ else. This really isn't possible across files because there is no expectation that a programmer would look at the header or source to simply move the construction of an object.

However, you may have had a point. It is somewhat unlikely that someone will drop the call to initialize the RNG, or construct + use the http auth object before calling initialization. And even if this did happen, `std::function` throws in that situation, so the behavior **is** defined. A simple comment in the header listing this dependency may have been sufficient. My apologies for annoyances - the changes seemed pretty minimal which is why I recommended it.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2017-12-21T15:12:29+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-01-10T10:51:05+00:00
