---
title: fix on_battery_power for linux
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2144
author: mehtaphysical
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-07-04T02:24:48+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-07-05T03:15:58+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2017-07-04T20:36:28+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Fixes #2143

Any/all feedback welcome

# Discussion History
## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T02:35:27+00:00
if there are no power supplies this block falls through and boost::logic::tribool(boost::logic::indeterminate) is returned. Not sure if we should return false (not on battery power) instead. On my VPS, for example, I have to power supplies so i would have to pass bg-mining-ignore-battery.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-04T10:25:29+00:00
That seems pointless since it's just one call, and also ignores the return code, so makes things easier to get wrong. While the particular usage in your patch does not seem to depend on that, putting this in a generic file ensures it'll be used that way at some point.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-04T10:30:11+00:00
determine

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-04T10:30:54+00:00
determine

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-04T10:31:14+00:00
determine

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-04T10:33:34+00:00
This should probably continue to next iterator ?

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T14:07:38+00:00
Just because a battery is Full, does that mean it's not running on it (e.g. is AC powered)?

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T14:09:59+00:00
Just because a battery is not charging, does this mean it's not running on battery? Therefore should this return indeterminate or true?

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T14:10:34+00:00
Shouldn't this be indeterminate?

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T14:11:23+00:00
Again, shouldn't this be indeterminate?

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T14:12:00+00:00
Agreed

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:14:33+00:00
Honestly, im pretty unsure about this one. It means there is no current to/from the battery is 0. https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/3477d168ba61c5b0ca42d3d4642f3463609a5417/drivers/power/supply/ds2782_battery.c#L237.

You think its best to be indeterminate at that point. My thought was that this could happen to a broken battery when it is plugged.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T16:16:43+00:00
If we do not know for sure whether the system is running on battery, makes more sense to report as such, hence indeterminate.

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:17:49+00:00
There is a slight chance that the status is returned as Full when the battery is first unplugged after a full charge (since full just means `capacity == 100` and that is the first thing checked for https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/3477d168ba61c5b0ca42d3d4642f3463609a5417/drivers/power/supply/ds2782_battery.c#L234.

However, since the check is called continuously, i think this is ok. What do you think?

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:24:11+00:00
removed

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:24:16+00:00
sounds good. updated

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:24:20+00:00
thanks. im the worst

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:24:22+00:00
fixed

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T16:24:24+00:00
I think this should return indeterminate as well then. If we are not _sure_ the system is running on battery or not this should return indeterminate as well, that's the whole purpose of this function using a tribool.

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:24:24+00:00
fixed

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:24:26+00:00
good point. updated

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:24:28+00:00
i think you're right. updated

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:29:11+00:00
but if it returns indeterminate anyone on a laptop plugged in for long enough for their battery to fully charge will stop mining unless they pass `--bg-mining-ignore-battery`. which is worse i think because then they will always be mining even on battery

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:31:24+00:00
ok makes sense. updated

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:33:40+00:00
Also, i think if we do this we should just always return false or indeterminate if the only power supplies we find are batteries. its more confusing that you can only mine when your laptop is charging. Then we can add a message to the `--bg-mining-ignore-battery` flag saying to always pass it if you are on a laptop.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T16:33:58+00:00
But currently your logic reads "If the battery is Full they are not running on battery" which might be incorrect. Does it not also need to check against other power sources too so that you don't get a report of a Full battery when there is not other power source?

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:37:20+00:00
right now its like. If the highest battery (BAT0 has more priority than BAT1) is full and there is no AC adapter.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T16:37:38+00:00
> Also, i think if we do this we should just always return false or indeterminate if the only power supplies we find are batteries. its more confusing that you can only mine when your laptop is charging. Then we can add a message to the --bg-mining-ignore-battery flag saying to always pass it if you are on a laptop.

That's what I was getting at. I don't think you really make a full assessment until you have checked all power sources. So should refactor to not return until you have swept all power sources and statuses.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T16:39:51+00:00
> right now its like. If the highest battery (BAT0 has more priority than BAT1) is full and there is no AC adapter.

But you're returning before finishing iterating all sources.

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:43:53+00:00
im sorting them in alphabetical order so that the highest priority ones are checked first. (AC -> BAT0 -> BAT1 -> etc).

There can be more than one battery or an AC and battery. I think in both cases we want to take AC first (if present) and the first present battery. The other battery could be a backup battery, for example.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T16:46:39+00:00
But this is the problem (and I just saw your comment on the for loop). I don't agree you should take the first power source as the "truth". Why not simply iterate all then make a decision?

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:49:06+00:00
but which one should i trust?

Maybe if there are more than one power supply i should return indeterminate unless they are all in a plugged in state (if present)?

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T16:49:08+00:00
This should be indeterminate. The log message says it all, so why assume they are on battery when you don't know? That's why this is a tribool and why there is a flag to ignore battery.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T16:49:56+00:00
That said, I really think this loop should iterate all sources before making a judgement.

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T16:51:40+00:00
Also, that still doesnt settle what to do with Full. The same issue is there

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T16:53:48+00:00
No I don't think so. Just iterate them all adding results to an array. After the loop, check the array of results and if you get a mains definitive yes, then not on battery. If you get indeterminate or false mains, use the battery results.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T16:55:40+00:00
> but which one should i trust?

Check them all and then decide. Simple.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T16:56:44+00:00
> Also, that still doesnt settle what to do with Full. The same issue is there

Well not if you check them all. If you have a full battery but no mains, they are on battery. 

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T17:00:09+00:00
And if mains is indeterminate, and battery is full, they are on battery.

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T18:12:28+00:00
So to be clear a laptop will always be on battery then even if it is plugged in

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-04T18:58:46+00:00
I kinda agree with jtgrassie. Moreover, you could have a battery online, and an AC online, in which case you'd want to report no battery. I think this is OK in your code due to the sorting, but on reflection I don't like that sorting, as it's an assumption that we have AC and BAT*, which sort in this case, but isn't really generic.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T19:14:55+00:00
@mehtaphysical 
> So to be clear a laptop will always be on battery then even if it is plugged in

How do you work that out?? When it's plugged in you will read it has a mains, AC, power supply. Thus not on battery.

Really not sure what more we can say. You need need to iterate all sources before returning. @moneromooo-monero points out another reason why you cannot rely on your current method of simply sorting. There is nothing as far as I can find in the specs that guarantees the names of the files will always be AC* or BAT*. You have to actually read the file contents to get the type of source, not rely on its file name.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T19:38:11+00:00
Minor point but why are you not using a range based for loop? Much easier to read and monero requires C++11 so within standard on this project.

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T20:00:04+00:00
I agree with the sorting thing. I'm not arguing against that. I will change that part.

If you plug in a battery it does not become a main btw. That so how to handle the full status is what I am disagreeing with

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T20:00:06+00:00
I agree with the sorting thing. I'm not arguing against that. I will change that part.

If you plug in a battery it does not become a main btw. That so how to handle the full status is what I am disagreeing with

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T20:00:08+00:00
I agree with the sorting thing. I'm not arguing against that. I will change that part.

If you plug in a battery it does not become a main btw. That so how to handle the full status is what I am disagreeing with

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T20:07:59+00:00
> If you plug in a battery it does not become a main btw. That so how to handle the full status is what I am disagreeing with

For clarity I use the term main**s** and AC interchangeably. Main**s** is a common name for a plugged in AC power supply. Not as in main / primary source.

I am not saying plugging in a battery makes it a mains (as in AC) source. If there is a mains (AC) source it wont show up as a battery, and if you use the logic by looping all sources, if you have a battery that reports as Full, you can still check whether you have an AC source. If you do not have a mains (AC) source and a battery that is full, you are on battery, but if you do have an AC source, you are not on battery regardless if its full or not.

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T20:12:26+00:00
So a laptop should never return false?

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T20:18:33+00:00
Blimey. No. A 'Full' battery does not indicate whether a machine (laptop or otherwise) is running on battery or not. You have to check _all_ available power sources.

If you cannot find an AC (I'll stop using the term main**s** as that is confusing you) power supply but have a battery on 'Full' you should return true IMO. But, if you _can_ find an AC and have a battery on 'Full' then you are not on battery.

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T20:21:00+00:00
The term mains is not confusing me. I think you haven't read the spec. A laptop will have only one power source. A battery. It does not have a battery and an account power source.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T20:27:59+00:00
Incorrect. laptops have both AC and BAT power sources. They do not have AC sources when not physically plugged into the mains however. Even if what you were saying is true, if you looped, found no AC (or indeterminate), and a BAT on Full, you could return indeterminate or true (depending on AC state). Point being, a Full BAT does not indicate alone whether you are on battery or not. 

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T20:36:14+00:00
I'm on a laptop as I write this and that is not the case. I think I'll just delete this PR. I don't really agree with the direction.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T20:45:18+00:00
> I'm on a laptop as I write this and that is not the case.

So you are saying you are on a laptop, plugged into the wall and have no AC power source? That would be very odd and perhaps a system specific issue. My ArchLinux doesn't even have the acpi status files at all so it's not a science for sure. The current master code at least checks a few common names for AC sources and I can only assume thats why it is working for the majority. 

> I think I'll just delete this PR. I don't really agree with the direction.

I like the fact you wanted to improve it but think you got tangled in a logic problem. Looping all sources and then applying logic is the simple change rather than throwing the toys out the pram and deleting the PR because of peer review which is only trying to help get it as best as possible for the sake of the project.

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T21:34:43+00:00
I understand trying to make it better. But it's very difficult going through a peer review with someone who doesn't know the spec or what acpi is.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-04T22:35:30+00:00
I think the parameter should be changed to `const boost::filesystem::path&`. This does not conform to the existing style in this file, but has the benefit of allowing the caller to construct a single `boost::filesystem::path` that it reuses through these calls. `boost::filesystem::path` is implicitly convertible from a `std::string` and `const char*` so calling the function with either type will automatically construct the object at the callsite (as opposed to internally within this function).

Also, based on the documentation, it appears that an exception is _not_ thrown if the file could not be found. So the `::exists` check should be unnecessary. Which means, this function is possibly re-implementing `boost::fileystem::path` and if so should be removed entirely in favor of the existing boost function.

All of this applies to the next function too.

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T22:36:47+00:00
> But it's very difficult going through a peer review with someone who doesn't know the spec or what acpi is.

Well that's a bit rich _and_ a big assumption. Or are you talking about yourself? The 'spec' doesn't define the filenames or define how BAT and AC should switch. Hence constructive comments to try and catch all cases to find a solution that catches all eventualities. If you know the acpi and spec better than the rest of us then your PR would have been better and had only positive reviews. 

## vtnerd | 2017-07-04T22:40:11+00:00
This is a good candidate for `boost::optional<std::vector<boost::filesytem::path>>`. In the worst case a `std::move` is performed on the `std::vector` (which is pretty quick), and in many cases RVO is going to be applied. And its easier on the optimizer when considering aliasing (although I'm not sure that applies here due to the complexity of the boost function being called).

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-04T22:45:31+00:00
One of the great things about peer review is that it challenges the submitter to verify their code / knowledge. If they just submit code that doesn't get challenged and thus blindly accepted, the project as a whole can suffer. Your code unfortunately in this PR was riddled with issues and through peer review could have been updated and fixed, you learnt more, the reviewers learnt more and the project benefitted. 

## vtnerd | 2017-07-04T22:48:03+00:00
This alias kind of stinks, mainly because `path::string` returns a temporary string. This is never being modified, so consider making it `const` so the aliasing is clear. `const std::string&` would also work, in the unlikely event the function returns a reference.

Could you also mark a comment in here about removing the temporary alias altogether if `epee` were magically updated someday. If `epee` properly took `boost::filesytem::path` parameters, the callsite would be `*iter / "present"`, etc., and would create the minimal number of temporaries while remaining readable.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-04T22:56:25+00:00
Does the ICD listed above mention anything about case (upper, lower, etc.)? Its easy to do a no-case comparison with these same set of boost functions.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-04T23:10:32+00:00
I think @jtgrassie makes a good point. This should be fairly easy - start in the `true` state before the loop, remove all branches returning `true`, assign on the branches returning `indeterminate`, and then leave the `false` branches unchanged. At the end of the loop return the state.

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-05T00:19:33+00:00
I'm not claiming to know acpi. And I'm not claiming that this PR couldn't be improved.

The problem is your comment weren't constructive. You weren't questing how something works, but rather telling me how they worked (wrongly).

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-05T00:41:48+00:00
i think you're right. I'll remove this function and the next

## mehtaphysical | 2017-07-05T01:45:08+00:00
oh nice. How do i do that? Sorry i dont really know c++ or boost

I've only seen it title case. I haven't seen any mention of it. And in this repo https://github.com/valr/cbatticon/blob/master/cbatticon.c#L510 and this one https://github.com/JarekSed/batterymon-clone/blob/master/batterymon#L174 it only checks title case. But it probably wouldn't hurt to make this non case sensitive 

## mdchaudhari | 2017-07-05T02:54:02+00:00
You can use `boost::iequals`

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-05T02:57:49+00:00
Unfortunate you feel that way. Reopening as another PR that loses all the suggestions by myself and others, whilst also not addressing those concerns / comments / suggestions seems disingenuous also. 

## jtgrassie | 2017-07-05T03:15:58+00:00
Pleased you at least added the continuing of iterating as I and others suggested though!
Can I request you reopen this PR and delete your new one please. History is important.

# Action History
- Created by: mehtaphysical | 2017-07-04T02:24:48+00:00
- Closed at: 2017-07-04T20:36:28+00:00
