---
title: 'tx_memory_pool: quick abort on block templates for too-young FCMP txs'
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/220
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-11-06T18:07:50+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-04-21T01:12:55+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## j-berman | 2025-11-06T19:55:40+00:00
Idea: if you have `max_used_block_height=reference_block` for FCMP++ txs, you can just check `txd.max_used_block_height >= curr_height` here

We wouldn't need the `hard_height_requirement` field, and can call this for any tx. It also avoids any issues surrounding off-by-1 logic

It introduces a difference on what `max_used_block_height` means for pre and post FCMP++ txs (which affects the if for `// enforce min output age` in `blockchain.cpp`), so I would accept if you prefer not to do that

## jeffro256 | 2025-11-06T23:10:08+00:00
> We wouldn't need the hard_height_requirement field, and can call this for any tx. It also avoids any issues surrounding off-by-1 logic

We can't use that height without re-checking for ring signature transactions because a reorg can change the height of referenced ring members. It's different for FCMP++ txs because the reference height is explicitly a height value and isn't allowed by consensus any lower than at least 1 block after the reference block height.

For example. if the top ring member gets re-orged from height H to height H-1, this code would skip over this transaction in the block template for the next block. Eventually, this would be eligible again, so maybe it's okay?

> It introduces a difference on what max_used_block_height means for pre and post FCMP++ txs (which affects the if for // enforce min output age in blockchain.cpp), so I would accept if you prefer not to do that

This is also one of the main reasons why I chose to do it this way: I wanted to behavior to match what's happening with the ring signature transactions.

## j-berman | 2025-11-06T23:12:38+00:00
Good point, you're right. As is is ok with me, will review closer for off-by-1

## j-berman | 2025-11-06T23:16:24+00:00
Could pass in the db height to prevent the db read for height for all txs in a loop

## j-berman | 2025-11-06T23:26:47+00:00
Note for self:

I use a similar pattern in db_lmdb.cpp [here](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/blob/28fdf9829835da7b8c5daab2b800109922774140/src/blockchain_db/lmdb/db_lmdb.cpp#L7402)

I think it would be good to use a helper function for this logic just so it's consolidated somewhere / makes it easier to manage if there is some change down the road

I can do it in a separate PR

## j-berman | 2025-11-06T23:34:17+00:00
Looks good, always tricky

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2025-11-06T18:07:50+00:00
