---
title: 'rpc/interface: separate `RpcHandler` into 3 `tower::Service`s'
source_url: https://github.com/Cuprate/cuprate/pull/266
author: hinto-janai
assignees: []
labels:
- A-docs
- A-rpc
created_at: '2024-09-03T00:40:30+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-09-05T20:16:45+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-09-05T15:53:16+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-09-05T15:53:16+00:00'
---

# Original Description
### What
- Removes the `Rpc{Request,Response}` enums in `cuprate_rpc_interface`
- Replaces the single `tower::Service` bound on `cuprate_rpc_interface::RpcHandler` with 3 ones, one for each RPC enum type i.e. `JsonRpcRequest, BinRequest, OtherRequest`

### Why
The size difference between the smallest and largest enum variant triggers [this lint](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-clippy/master/index.html#/large_enum_variant).

Discussed in this meeting: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/1064.

### How
The 300 byte figure I left in the meeting is incorrect since this PR also decouples request enums with JSON-RPC types.

It's closer to a 32 byte difference across enums and 96 byte difference within the largest enum itself `OtherRequest` (one variant is 96 bytes, one is 0 bytes). This can be solved by implementing `tower::Service` for each request type, but this was decided as too unwieldy, so for now it is implemented on the 3 RPC enum types.

# Discussion History
## hinto-janai | 2024-09-03T21:23:50+00:00
We can unwrap 1 layer of `enum` in the handlers since we're getting rid of `Rpc{Request,Response}`. 

## hinto-janai | 2024-09-03T21:26:19+00:00
Unrelated: `cuprate-rpc-interface` now handles JSON-RPC stuff.

This was encoded in the `RpcRequest` type itself which is weird since the inner handler should only care about returning a `JsonRpcResponse` i.e. the actual data in the JSON-RPC response.

## hinto-janai | 2024-09-03T21:28:14+00:00
What `RpcHandler` implementation looks like now.

Basically the 3 nested `match`es from before extracted out into their own `tower::Service`.

## hinto-janai | 2024-09-03T21:29:21+00:00
Should this exist? It's just an alias because these bounds x3 on `RpcHandler` looked messy.

## Boog900 | 2024-09-05T15:52:53+00:00
Yeah I think it's a good idea. 

FWIW I don't think you need the `Sync` bound here, although I also overuse the `Sync` bound in other parts of the code, I plan to go through it at some point and check so if this isn't needed then I'll remove it. 

# Action History
- Created by: hinto-janai | 2024-09-03T00:40:30+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-09-05T15:53:16+00:00
