---
title: Ban torsion on carrot outs at consensus
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/20
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-03-27T15:52:18+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-05-14T01:30:02+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-05-14T01:30:01+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-05-14T01:30:01+00:00'
---

# Original Description
I'm open to suggestions on a cleaner approach

Also implements using the faster torsion check in the wallet only, and keeping the more conservative torsion clear at consensus 

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2025-04-03T21:04:13+00:00
I would remove this header include 

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-03T21:05:28+00:00
Personally, I would move this to the crypotonote format utils. Right now the `cryptonote_basic` folder depends on `ringct`, not the other way around. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-03T21:07:14+00:00
I would move this to `tx_verification_utils` since it's a function which simply takes transaction info, performs query, and returns `true`/`false.

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-03T21:18:58+00:00
This could return a boolean for whether torsion was checked instead of the whole transaction

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-03T21:49:05+00:00
This is very nit picky, but the size of a boolean is implementation-defined, and not guaranteed to be 1 on every system: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4897844/is-sizeofbool-defined-in-the-c-language-standard/4897859#4897859

## j-berman | 2025-04-04T16:11:47+00:00
That's interesting, so either I use a different type here or use `sizeof(bool)` in place of 1. Maybe a uint8_t would keep things simple here

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-08T20:11:20+00:00
You could also get rid of this function, modify `cryptonote::expand_transaction_1` to expand `rct_signatures.outPk`, even for version 1 transactions (isn't slower anyways since we would otherwise call `rct::zeroCommitVartime` when adding the output commitment to the database), and then just grab `rct_signatures.outPk.at(output_idx).mask` from then on. 

## j-berman | 2025-04-10T17:56:31+00:00
I like this idea. I started on it, then realized miner txs aren't expanded via `expand_transaction_1`. We could add `expand_transaction_1(b.miner_tx)` to `parse_and_validate_block_from_blob`, but that would slow down block parsing everywhere, which is used all over the place in places where the caller doesn't necessarily need the commitment.

So then the question becomes: still move forward with it and have all those other callers eat the cost (not a terrible idea, because this would still bring the number of `zeroCommitVartime`'s during daemon sync down from 3 to 1), or surgically ensure callers who *do* (or *don't*) need it use a different function.

Curious if you have thoughts on that.

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-13T19:57:08+00:00
You could keep this `getCommitment` function, but cache the results in `outPk` for future calls to the same transaction, instead of doing it in `expand_transaction_1`. That might be cleaner, and wouldn't slow down places where we don't need the commitment and are just deserializing. 

## j-berman | 2025-04-14T15:50:03+00:00
That sounds likes the best option to me. Going with that.

## j-berman | 2025-04-17T18:14:33+00:00
I figured since the function name is `get_tx_output_data` and the tx is already being read into a tx variable, makes sense to just return the whole tx. The torsion check seems a confusing thing to add to this function signature that other contexts wouldn't necessarily care about.

## j-berman | 2025-04-17T18:14:36+00:00
I agree in spirit. The problem is that would make `blockchain_db_utils` -> `cryptonote_core` -> `blockchain_db` -> `blockchain_db_utils` so makes a circular dep.

Could solve for this by moving `get_outs_by_last_locked_block` into tx verification utils as well, then modify `add_block` to take in that result. Probably the way to go.

Would prefer to do this in a separate PR, since this function's placement is a minor point for this PR, and requires more changes outside of the scope of this PR.

## j-berman | 2025-04-17T18:15:30+00:00
Hmm, think you mixed the two up here. `cryptonote_basic` doesn't depend on `ringct`, and `ringct` does depend on `cryptonote_basic`. The reason I placed it here initially is because `is_coinbase` requires the dep to `cryptonote_basic`, and `zeroCommitVartime` requires the ringct dep.

## j-berman | 2025-04-17T18:17:03+00:00
Went with this making `outPk` mutable so I can modify it when tx is const

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-24T20:55:40+00:00
Okay so sorry, I have another yet another idea that is less invasive to `cryptonote::transaction`, and which hopefully might actually speed it up more. Instead of storing the commitments in `outPk`, and forcing it to be mutable, we should just cache the operation that takes a long time: `zeroCommitVartime`. We could either A) add a new function `zeroCommitVartimeCached` or B) keep the cache internal to `zeroCommitVartime`. But the idea is just keep a `rct::xmr_amount` -> `rct::key` map of the last N results of `zeroCommitVartime`. This doesn't need invasive modifications to `cryptonote::transaction` and has the ability to cache scalar-point multiplication results *across* transactions for the same amount. 

## j-berman | 2025-04-26T01:50:57+00:00
I didn't feel comfortable with making `outPk` mutable either, and I do agree a cache is a more conservative way to go. I don't know if I necessarily agree with introducing complexity for caching by amount rather than txs in a block (since it looks like coinbase amounts these days are unique, even [p2pool payouts](https://p2pool.io/explorer/tx/f289d4283db95d2b2715c6147aabe2165c101cb9c73c574185f0e137b41b94bc)). But I do agree a cache makes sense. Maybe even doing both makes sense (caching by amount *would* be nice for dealing with pre-RingCT stuff ... EDIT: although there is [this table](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d2d976ca5aa86625c501d04f1c6e481eea76e57b/src/ringct/rctOps.cpp#L43) that is probably hitting tons of those duplicates already anyway).

I'd like to keep it how it was for now (just calling `zeroCommitVartime` 3 times during normal sync), and do the cache optimization in a later pass along with [this change](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/20#discussion_r2049443277). Considering removing duplicate calls to `zeroCommitVartime` isn't relevant to the torsion ban, I think we should move forward and not get bogged down by optimization hell here ... `zeroCommitVartime` speeds up the existing `zeroCommit` by something like 6x, so even repeating the op thrice is a 2x improvement over the existing. But alas, it's worth cleaning up in a later pass.
_____

There are 4 main places the daemon calls this function during normal sync:

1) `Blockchain::validate_miner_transaction` (called by `Blockchain::handle_block_to_main_chain`)
2) `ver_non_input_consensus` (called by `Blockchain::handle_block_to_main_chain`)
3) `cryptonote::get_outs_by_last_locked_block` (called by `BlockchainDB::add_block`, which is called by `Blockchain::handle_block_to_main_chain`)
4) `BlockchainDB::add_transaction` (called by `BlockchainDB::add_block`, which is called by `Blockchain::handle_block_to_main_chain`)

So I'd need to instantiate a cache accessible to `handle_block_to_main_chain` and to each of these calling functions. Instead of doing that and messing with all these functions which will also be modified with [this change](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/20#discussion_r2049443277), I'd like to implement a solid approach that tackles both issues in one pass (use a cache accessible in all these locations and move the call to `get_outs_by_last_locked_block` up into `cryptonote_core`).

## jeffro256 | 2025-04-26T21:45:01+00:00
> I don't know if I necessarily agree with introducing complexity for caching by amount rather than txs in a block (since it looks like coinbase amounts these days are unique, even [p2pool payouts](https://p2pool.io/explorer/tx/f289d4283db95d2b2715c6147aabe2165c101cb9c73c574185f0e137b41b94bc)).

Well it wouldn't just help with coinbase amounts across transactions, but multiple calls for the *same transaction* later. Also, the cache wouldn't be stored per block, just once somewhere relevant, although doing it per block would guarantee that cache results don't roll over. 

> I'd like to keep it how it was for now (just calling zeroCommitVartime 3 times during normal sync), and do the cache optimization in a later pass along with https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/20#discussion_r2049443277. Considering removing duplicate calls to zeroCommitVartime isn't relevant to the torsion ban, I think we should move forward and not get bogged down by optimization hell here ...

I agree. Let's just go with the cleanest, easiest to read approach, forgetting caching at the moment. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-03T17:19:55+00:00
This PR to master should make things a bit clearer where the dependencies actually are: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9919. Because, yes, `libringct` actually linked against `libcryptonote_basic` (for a single convenience function), there was a larger hidden dependency where `libcryptonote_basic` needed to link against `libringct_basic`, but included a header from `libringct`. And `libcryptonote_basic` will always include headers from `libringct_basic`: `rctTypes.h`, since `cryptonote::transaction` has a field member of a type defined in `libringct_basic`: `rctSig`.

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-06T19:35:10+00:00
```suggestion
    if (!rct::isInMainSubgroup(point))
        return false;
    torsion_cleared_out = point;
    return true;
```

`rct::isInMainSubgroup` / `rct::toPointCheckOrder` under the hood works a bit differently than `clear_torsion`. They multiply by the order of the prime subgroup `rct::curveOrder()` and do a positive check against the additive identity element `rct::I`. Is this essentially the same operation? Especially thinking about points with order `2l`, `4l`, and `8l`. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-06T19:46:30+00:00
Personally, I would put this declaration in the `if (!torsion_checked)` block so the timer only times when torsion is actually checked. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-06T19:48:18+00:00
Why this header?

## j-berman | 2025-05-06T21:04:52+00:00
A core difference is that given a torsioned output, `clear_torsion` will actually clear torsion on that torsioned point and return that "torsion cleared" output, which is intended since technically even outputs with torsion are supposed remain spendable after FCMP++ (but outputs added to the tree cannot have torsion). I believe all outputs with torsion would fail `rct::isInMainSubgroup`, and then wouldn't be added to the tree with this code

## j-berman | 2025-05-06T21:11:09+00:00
Remnant of the prior round of changes, will remove

## j-berman | 2025-05-06T21:27:30+00:00
E.g. check this modification to the `genesis_tx_output_torsion` unit test:

```cpp
TEST(Crypto, genesis_tx_output_torsion)
{
  rct::key k;
  // see config::GENESIS_TX
  epee::string_tools::hex_to_pod("9b2e4c0281c0b02e7c53291a94d1d0cbff8883f8024f5142ee494ffbbd088071", k);
  ge_p3 x;
  ASSERT_EQ(ge_frombytes_vartime(&x, k.bytes), 0);
  EXPECT_FALSE(rct::isInMainSubgroup(k));
  const rct::key cleared = fcmp_pp::clear_torsion(x);
  ASSERT_NE(k, cleared);
}
```

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-07T15:18:10+00:00
This is a nit, and outside the scope of the PR, but IMO `torsion_check_vartime` should be named something more specific to signify it's unstableness/untestedness, because that's probably more important to the reader than the fact that it's vartime. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-07T19:00:11+00:00
You could prevent the allocation of a `deque` by using a `std::atomic_flag` shared for all points.

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-07T19:06:19+00:00
Perhaps this `for` loop can be removed and just one iteration done? We already assert through other consensus rules that the output type has to be the same across all outputs in a transaction. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-07T19:09:02+00:00
The function `rct::getCommitment` can throw if the transaction is improperly formatted, but this function is supposed to return `false` on failure, not throw. Since it is used in a consensus context, we don't want it to be throwing when it should be returning `false`. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-08T00:39:20+00:00
This whole function can be written as `outs_container_inout[last_locked_block].emplace_back(std::move(output_context));` since an `unordered_map` creates an value-initialized value for a given key if not already present when using the `[]` operator. https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/container/unordered_map/operator_at

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-08T00:43:17+00:00
Also, I'm pretty sure the `std::move()` on `OutputContext` here is doing nothing for speed since all of it's fields are POD, so move assignment is pretty much equivalent to copy assignment. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-08T00:44:10+00:00
Same here

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-08T00:57:50+00:00
Not to beat a dead horse about the placement of `getCommitment`, but this forces a new dependency on `libringct` that `libblockchain_db` didn't have before. See: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/commit/06b74ae3f50e4c1ee4e4557fac5f418bf9e5de92#diff-6492d768b5bee6619cfc3574d47978c99f4add3eb9880845f9c1bbc400d2c51aR49.

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-08T00:58:19+00:00
Same comment here.

## j-berman | 2025-05-13T00:09:31+00:00
Solid idea. I think would rather keep `deque` for now and not try something new here just because that's how the rest of the file does it.

## j-berman | 2025-05-13T00:09:40+00:00
Kept as is because this way this function doesn't rely on a distinct consensus rule. If that rule changes for some reason elsewhere, then this may break silently. I figure that safety is worth the iterations here.

## j-berman | 2025-05-13T00:09:51+00:00
Kept as is because this way this function doesn't rely on a distinct consensus rule. If that rule changes for some reason elsewhere, then this may break silently. I figure that safety is worth the iterations here.

## j-berman | 2025-05-13T00:23:28+00:00
Re-reverted including `getCommitment` in this file

## j-berman | 2025-05-13T00:24:35+00:00
Good to keep it called out. Next pass will fix placement.

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2025-03-27T15:52:18+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-05-14T01:30:01+00:00
