---
title: 'downloads: link to hangouts for help/support'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/2424
author: HardenedSteel
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2024-11-20T03:06:42+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-05-16T21:15:50+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-04-10T12:48:40+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-04-10T12:48:40+00:00'
---

# Original Description
channels such as `#monero-dev` and `#monero-gui` aren't for user support.

linked to hangouts page

# Discussion History
## nahuhh | 2024-11-29T06:21:36+00:00
Most of the other strings don't use quotes, and the ones do, seem to prefer double quotes. Probably best to stick with existing code style


also, syntheticbird had mentioned that we should avoid putting HTML into the strings

## HardenedSteel | 2024-11-29T16:00:51+00:00
how can we hyperlink other than using HTML code?

## nahuhh | 2024-11-30T15:07:47+00:00
I asked and didnt get a response. I dont know 😅

## plowsof | 2025-04-06T01:54:29+00:00
we can use our own jekyll-multiple-languages-plugin, with a [small modification](https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/commit/6599e723d5fafde628a1c2a3f97cff05c0d3f41b) to enable `{{link:global_url:translated_title}}`, this is also useful when a website goes offline and we can just change it in one place and have it propagate throughout the translations. the path for that is #2454 -> #2237 -> add the above modification -> go wild finding all href links. just not tested with po/po4a.

The reason why this has single quotes is because of the href containing double quotes. these have to be `\"` escaped to prevent crash during build.
  `helpsupport3: "[...] <code>#monero-support</code> or check out the <a href=\"/community/hangouts/\">Hangouts</a> [...]"`

As for the inline `<code></code>` D:   ... so, po4a digests markdown (which could contain `code` stuff) and has a "The string below is a code block" (without these tags) then spits out the html later with the tags. po4a does not touch these .yml files here so it's 'needed' i guess. and might help explain why html may end up being interpreted as plain text depending where it is. i hope i've made some sense 


## plowsof | 2025-04-07T01:39:46+00:00
```suggestion
  helpsupport3: "If you are experiencing issues or you need more info, feel free to reach out to the community. You can join to <code>#monero-support</code> or check out the <a href=\"/community/hangouts/\">Hangouts</a> page for a more complete and detailed list of contacts and chatrooms"
```

# Action History
- Created by: HardenedSteel | 2024-11-20T03:06:42+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-04-10T12:48:40+00:00
