---
title: Bitmonero renamings
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/pull/23
author: mbg033
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2016-09-19T15:06:07+00:00'
updated_at: '2016-10-19T18:13:19+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2016-10-04T10:25:13+00:00'
merged_at: '2016-10-04T10:25:13+00:00'
---

# Original Description
changes regarding bitmonero->monero renamings + disabled link to libunwind for Linux build (https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/1090).


# Discussion History
## radfish | 2016-09-21T01:53:25+00:00
Don't the cmake and make commands above (lines 32-50) already build libunbound? The INSTALL_VENDORED_LIBUNBOUND flag tells cmake to copy libunbound.a to lib/ folder, so it must also build it. Unless I'm missing something, lines 53-63 should not be needed on any platform, no?


## radfish | 2016-09-21T01:59:15+00:00
Btw, just to clarify, when I said we should be using distro's packaged libraries, I didn't refer to what this script should do. Any reasonable packaging script for monero-core shouldn't be using this script at all (it should rely on a separate package for monerod and/or libwallet -- which is what Arch set of packages do already). Just wanted to clarify this, in case you have preferences regarding how you want this script to work -- I have zero input with regard to this script.


## radfish | 2016-09-21T02:14:28+00:00
Only for one of the distros, though... I think this will break the Arch package. That was the reason for 010a215. Hm.. ok, how about we add another CONFIG switchs for `libunwind_off` 
and change the above lines to

```
CONFIG(libunwind_off) {
   message(Building without libunwind)
} else {
    message(Building with libunwind)
    LIBS += -Wl,-Bdynamic -lunwind
}
```

EDIT: one flag should be enough; sorry, half a sleep here.

Then on Ubuntu, update readme instructions to pass `libunwind_off`when building on Ubuntu -- until this static linking problem is fixed. Distros that are not broken will continue to work by default without any extra flags, as desired.


## mbg033 | 2016-09-22T17:40:17+00:00
Yes, most likely lines 32-50 will build libunbound (due it's a dependency for some library within libwallet_merged), but it will not copy it into "lib/" until `make install` invoked (as `make install` was invoked only for `wallet`  target before)


## mbg033 | 2016-09-22T18:45:17+00:00
added this option and created PR https://github.com/monero-project/monero-core/pull/30


# Action History
- Created by: mbg033 | 2016-09-19T15:06:07+00:00
- Merged at: 2016-10-04T10:25:13+00:00
