---
title: 'cryptonote_protocol_handler: sync speedup'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2149
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-07-05T14:09:41+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-08-17T03:10:12+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-08-07T13:25:09+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-08-07T13:25:09+00:00'
---

# Original Description
A block queue is now placed between block download and
block processing. Blocks are now requested only from one
peer (unless starved).

Includes a new sync_info coommand.

Testers wanted!
I'm interested in people with extreme setups: very fast/slow CPU and fast/sluggish internet combinations.
Note that this commit has fork potential (though in all likelihood it'd only cause nodes to fail to sync).

I'm interested in reports about the speed difference between with and without the patch, and any reports of the sync wedging partway through.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2017-07-06T01:22:03+00:00
Can some of this go in a cpp file? It would be nice if `#include "crypto_protocol_defs.h"` could be moved to the cpp, since it brings in `cryptonote_basic.h` which has lots of dependencies too.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-06T01:26:17+00:00
This is undefined behavior (invalid aliasing), and `uuid` is 16 bytes whereas `size_t` is variable and generally no more than 8 bytes. That said, it should work "well enough" in most compilers/scenarios I can think of. The only alternate implementation I can provide on a whim is `return boost::hash_range(_v.begin(), _v.end())` which uses [`boost::hash_combine`](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_55_0/doc/html/hash/reference.html#boost.hash_combine) on each byte of the `uuid` value.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-06T01:27:47+00:00
`boost::mutex` ;(

## vtnerd | 2017-07-06T01:35:01+00:00
Its going to be easier/readable if the existing functionality is used. boost/std both have

```c++
const boost::unique_lock<boost::mutex> sync{m_sync_lock, boost::try_lock};
if (!sync.owns_lock()) { ... goto skip; }
```
So `epee` is not needed!

## vtnerd | 2017-07-09T17:28:58+00:00
`s.append(' ', n - s.size());` does the same thing without a temporary string (and may even have room to avoid alloc if  `s.capacity() - s.size() <= n - s.size()`. And good idea to take `s` by value.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-09T17:47:29+00:00
Consider `blocks(std::move(blocks))`.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-09T17:49:21+00:00
I would take `uuid` by `const &` and then do a local copy internally. There is no advantage to moving this object - 16 bytes have to be copied either way.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-09T18:05:11+00:00
I think having one block per `std::set` entry would be a much easier implementation. There is lots of code to manipulate an ordered list within an (automagically ordered) set. If the goal was to reduce `n*log(n)` operations on the insert, `std::set` has an insertion overload that takes an iterator as a "hint". If the hint is one-before the correct position, the insert is done amortized constant time (a possible re-balance could occur, etc.). 

The other trick would be to take `std::list` arguments by `&&`. This tells the caller you are taking the memory for the blocks. Then instead of moving the `std::list` into a `span` each `block_complete_entry` is moved into the newly created `std::set` entry.

Overlapping entries would be easier to spot since each block would be taking exactly one spot in the `std::set`. Merging in gaps with overlaps should be easier too. I would be happy to do a quick implementation of these suggestions + PR to your repo if it helps at all.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-09T18:56:37+00:00
With my recommendations above, this can be a `log(N)` `find`. Without them, I would still consider `lower_bound` because that will take a worst case `N` ops implemetation to `log(N)` ops.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-09T19:43:58+00:00
This function is getting a little big with this loop in here; just wondering out loud if there is a way to refactor.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T20:06:02+00:00
Yes, it could. It was small to begin with :)

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T20:08:11+00:00
Even reinterpret_cast is UB ? So we'd have to go through unions ?
For the record, this is original CN code (git grep CRYPTO_MAKE_HASAHBLE), which I could not use directly due to the crypto namespace.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T20:13:19+00:00
The goal was to just store the chunks received from the peers to buffer them.Complexity of std::set use was not considered, and is likely not very relevant here (though it might start being if there's just one block per entry).

My code is probably really poor in avoiding copies, I think best would be if you make a commit removing all useless copies once this is merged, because I'm totally unfamiliar with non-logical-and &&.

I'm unconvinced making a one block per entry version of this gains anything, but that's just a feeling. If you make one and it proves better, then we'll use that.


## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T20:14:22+00:00
I have no prior experience with using std::move before monero. What I did in this file is likely totally non optimal. Patch welcome :)

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T20:14:57+00:00
Usage has this pretty much always pick the first element anyway.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T20:15:43+00:00
I forget. Is this because std::mutex doesn't work on some platforms, right ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T20:16:33+00:00
Maybe, I'll have a look

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T21:05:34+00:00
That one doesn't compile (I changed the m_sync_lock type to boost::mutex). Not sure why, the documentationn matches. I'm leaving this out for now.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T21:10:12+00:00
I'd factored a bit in subsequent commits already. There's not really anything that's duplicated which could be factored in what's left I think, and the function's logic is still fairly easy to follow, so I'll leave this for now.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-09T21:20:06+00:00
Actually, I'm wrong here, it's actually often near the end

## vtnerd | 2017-07-10T18:04:13+00:00
The last version of mingw I checked does not support `std::thread` or `std::mutex`.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-10T18:05:29+00:00
We figured this out over IRC - the name is `boost::try_to_lock` for the constructor call.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-12T02:54:42+00:00
I mentioned on IRC, but its worth keeping a more visible record - there is no portable way to alias a `uint8_t[...]` with `size_t` in C++ (I believe C11 differs with the union trick, but I do not recall the C++ specification giving an exception in that case either). The existing cryptonote code is also undefined behavior in a strict reading of the language. The code currently compiles with `-fno-strict-aliasing` on all targets, which should prevent unexpected behavior after optimizations.

The other thing to consider is that this not mixing the entire UUID in the hash. However, I cannot think of an immediate issue if the UUID is random.

## vtnerd | 2017-07-12T03:14:15+00:00
#### block_queue
My primary issue is that I may not understand the purpose of this class. It seems closer to a "cache" so that blocks can be received out-of-order, and then processed later after missing gaps are filled. If so -

The current patch is storing these chunks by first block height in a `std::set`, but then each entry in the set has an internal list of bocks that has to be inspected multiple times. Since `std::set` has an insertion hint, contiguous ranges of blocks can be inserted into the `std::set` with a total complexity logarithmic to the existing set size. Many of the linear operations become logarithmic too, and should have less code. Overlapping chunks can be easily handled too - ignore duplicates and insert into the gaps. Alternate blocks could also be handled, but might be a bit much.

The "penalty" is that the blocks have to be iterated during insertion, and each insertion requires an allocation. The increased size of the set is going to be minimal; 1million blocks is roughly 19 ops (which has lots of pointer traversals etc, but is still significantly smaller than scanning 1million ops in those other find functions).

#### Move Parameters
`&&` in this context means the parameter must be an rvalue. My perspective: by-value copies by default and the caller can optionally move the memory, whereas by-rvalue moves by default and the caller can optionally copy the memory. In the rvalue case, it is actually a compiler error if the caller does not explicitly make a copy:
```c++
void foo(std::string&&);

std::string mystring;
foo(mystring); // compiler error, mystring is not an rvalue
foo(std::string(mystring)); // copied
foo(std::move(mystring)); // moved
foo(std::string("a new string")); // temporary string is "moved"
foo("a different string"); // implicit constructor is called
```

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-12T08:29:34+00:00
This class is indeed a cache so that chunks may be received out of order. Your suggestion could make more sense if we were to decouple the download chunk size with the processing chunk size. I'd tried changing the patch so that slower peers would be asked for a smaller number of blocks, but this did not have any discernable effect, so I'm assuming for now that this would not have much effect.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-03T21:08:42+00:00
I've slowly moved some code in epee to `std::chrono::steady_clock` because I think it is better designed for this sort of task. Although the usage here is dead simple, so there's less advantage ...

## vtnerd | 2017-08-03T21:16:32+00:00
The only potentially throwing function should be the `LOG_PRINT_L1` which is rare, but a scoped lock is almost always more appropriate in silly C++.

Also, does it make sense to move everything from here until the end of the function between the two task regions below? I suppose the one advantage is that the timing within `parse_tx_from_blob` will differ, and therefore each task may not _actually_ block each other on the lock. But its possibly quicker to grab the lock once, run over all of the txes, release lock, and do the quick check below.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-03T21:25:42+00:00
Another scoped locked scenario.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-03T21:28:15+00:00
small point, but this variable seems unnecessary since its never used; `ok &= add_new_tx(...);`

## vtnerd | 2017-08-06T17:58:22+00:00
Might be useful to have a sanity check ("defensive programming") that `tx_blobs.size() == tvc.size()` - otherwise there is UB in this function.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-06T18:02:41+00:00
I would static_assert that `sizeof(std::size_t) <= sizeof(uuid)`. Definitely pedantic, but easy enough.

And this, along with `#include <unordered_map>` can be moved to the cpp too.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T03:58:40+00:00
I know that `std::deque` has been used in the past, but why not just a `std::vector`? I don't see any queue specific features being used.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T04:12:11+00:00
I do not understand. Why does the processing chunks and download chunks need to remain intricately linked? Why not shove everything into a `std::set`, which is ordered, then remove from the `begin()` into a `std::list` for processing ? The only thing is that you may need to track connection id per block inside of a set of chunks.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T04:14:37+00:00
This is used by the command executor code ... is this just for debugging, or ... ?

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T04:23:48+00:00
Its quicker to just do the insert here in this case. The call returns a `pair<iterator, bool>` where the bool indicates whether the item was inserted on the call. So it reduces one lookup. 

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T04:30:19+00:00
If this were a `std::map` with `start_block_height` as the key this would be a simple call to `erase`.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T04:33:06+00:00
FWIW, `auto uuid0 = boost::uuids::nil_uuid()` is another option.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T04:34:37+00:00
Looks like `std::max`. Also this is dead simple if this where a `std::map` of blocks where the key was the height `std::map::rbegin()`.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T04:47:50+00:00
Add a `const &` to existing code, no need to copy each tx (which I think the compiler might be required to do due to side effects).

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T05:03:24+00:00
Why is this span being copied, erased, then re-inserted? The key entry is not based upon this value ?

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T05:12:54+00:00
`std::max`

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T05:15:35+00:00
So this function would be much easier if the key were block height (not `start_block_height`) with the block as a value ... 

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T05:17:18+00:00
Same thing here, if this were the conservative approach of making `start_block_height` a key, its just a find, two comparisons, then iterator erase.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T05:19:45+00:00
Where does the placeholder ID get inserted into the map? I missed it somehow. Is this part of existing code when referencing some special connection id?

## vtnerd | 2017-08-07T05:24:19+00:00
Also easier if key is block height.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-07T07:39:35+00:00
Maybe. The lock's only taken for a tiny amount of time though, two set lookups. Looks like too much change right now just to potentially gain epsilon. The log's out of the lock scope btw, but good point about scope locks in general.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-07T07:40:20+00:00
I'll change that after merge, just in case it breaks.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-07T07:41:51+00:00
No, tvc is resized to match,

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-07T07:44:54+00:00
I don't remember. A vector would be OK too here. Safe change so I'll changing it.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-07T07:51:56+00:00
Mostly, yes.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-07T07:55:22+00:00
It is a std::set with start_block_height as the key. Maybe it should be a multiset... Theoretically, spans starting at the same place could make sense.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-07T07:57:55+00:00
Yes, it's a max. And no, the first element might not be the one with the highest height end block, as the sizes are not constant.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-07T07:59:48+00:00
It is technically the same, but I find it easier to reason like this. Maybe subjective, though ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-07T08:01:01+00:00
Can you explain in more detail ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-07T08:01:40+00:00
At the start, it represents the set of blocks already in the chain,

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-07T08:03:31+00:00
std::set has its iterators all const as modifying its data could modify the set structure.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-08-07T08:11:44+00:00
OK, reading the docs, that seems like a good change. I'll do that after merge, since I'm a bit wary of breaking it now.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-17T03:02:01+00:00
Yes, I know. If reorganized using my other suggestion (map of blocks instead of map of block lists). it would be as simple as invoking `rbegin()`.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-17T03:02:35+00:00
Its generally easier to audit/review at a glance when something like `std::max` is used.

## vtnerd | 2017-08-17T03:07:37+00:00
My continued suggestion of `std::map<uint64_t, block>` where the key is the block height. Missing gaps can be found easier.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2017-07-05T14:09:41+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-08-07T13:25:09+00:00
