---
title: Inout sort
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/2440
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-09-12T20:43:10+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-09-25T14:49:10+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-09-25T14:49:10+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-09-25T14:49:10+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## deleted_user | 2017-09-12T22:19:32+00:00
Why use the shorthand here but the full form above on line 2337? Asking for my edification.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-09-13T08:30:48+00:00
The code near 2337 had been using it a few times, so I cached it in a local. The code near 2522 started by using it just once, then one added each time, so never got cached. There's no particular reason other than that.

## vtnerd | 2017-09-13T17:24:29+00:00
Instead of taking a `std::function`, considering making the signature:
```c++
template<typename F>
void apply_permutation(std::vector<size_t>, F f);
```
There is no need to "type-erase" the callback into a _potentially_ allocated object. Otherwise, consider moving this to a cpp because with the type-erasure there is no need to have everything in the header. If you are worried about the callback modifying the variables `f(size_t(current), size_t(next))` will prevent that easily.

And you might want to add a comment to mention the pre-conditions for the `permutation` variable in both of these functions. If an index is missing from that vector, I believe this function will never terminate. Its not _immediately_ obvious at a glance.

## vtnerd | 2017-09-13T17:28:41+00:00
Consider making this a pointer; the compiler might be able to elide the 32-byte copy each pass.

## vtnerd | 2017-09-13T17:29:49+00:00
Making this one a pointer would be a bit trickier.

## vtnerd | 2017-09-13T17:50:00+00:00
This loop is `std::iota(sources.begin(), sources.end(), 0);` or if even lazier `boost::iota(sources, 0);`

## vtnerd | 2017-09-13T18:24:04+00:00
I typed up an alternate implementation here but realized `boost::tuple` is not move aware so it is less efficient. I'm going to dump it here simply because I find it too interesting to just dump.
```c++
#include <boost/range/algorithm/combine.hpp>
#include <boost/range/algorithm/sort.hpp>

using tied = boost::tuple<
    const txin_v&, const input_generation_context_data&, const tx_source_entry&
>;
boost::sort(
    boost::combine(tx.vin, in_contexts, sources),
    [] (tied left, tied right) {
        const auto& tk0 = boost::get<txin_to_key>(boost::get<0>(left));
        const auto& tk1 = boost::get<txin_to_key>(boost::get<0>(right));
        return memcmp(std::addressof(tk0.k_image), std::addressof(tk1.k_image)) < 0;
    }
);
```
That should move the various vector elements while sorting ...

## vtnerd | 2017-09-14T13:40:06+00:00
Why have the other overload? It doesn't appear to be used directly and is not taking advantage of a cpp.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-09-17T10:21:48+00:00
If it is a template, why can it be in a cpp file, assuming no manual instanciation for the F that actually get used ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-09-17T10:22:33+00:00
This is because it's the "typical" use, so it seemed useful to include it. What "advantage of a cpp" do you mean here ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-09-17T10:27:40+00:00
That seems just a few characters shorter, but is way less understandable (unless you happen to know that function off the top of your head).

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-09-17T10:30:02+00:00
This points to the result of boost::get, which I think it fine as it's not a temporary given it's already assigned to a ref. Please double check the change is what you had in mind.

## vtnerd | 2017-09-17T23:05:57+00:00
I meant if you wanted to keep the `std::function<...>` argument, then everything can be moved into a cpp. If you changed to a `template<typename F>` then it would have to remain in the header to work.

## vtnerd | 2017-09-17T23:24:53+00:00
Why have the `std::function` overload? Its definition is not in a cpp (currently), and its not being called directly AFAIK. So an argument could be made to drop that overload and do the swap logic directly in this function. There _could_ be some assembly output reduction as a result of the type-erasure, but the function is so short and there's still setup for the `std::function`, etc. 

In hindsight, I should not have mentioned `template<typename F>` above as that confused things a bit. To clarify, my recommendation would be to drop the `std::function` overload and move the definition here or to move the `std::function` overload implementation to a cpp file.

## vtnerd | 2017-09-17T23:26:58+00:00
Yes, this should work AFAIK. FYI, `boost::get<...>(...)` has an overload that takes a `boost::variant<...> *` (pointer), and returns a pointer to the object on success and `NULL` on failure. So `boost::get<...>(...)` should not be returning a temporary / copy.

## moneromooo-monero | 2017-09-18T09:05:12+00:00
Ah, I see now. tbh I don't know about the differences between the two so my choice was arbitrary. I'll change it to your suggestion.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2017-09-12T20:43:10+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-09-25T14:49:10+00:00
