---
title: Support for reading 16 byte / 13-word seeds
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/3281
author: paulshapiro
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-02-17T04:27:23+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-03-31T20:15:12+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Includes support for 

* account.cpp to properly generate view keys for a (32 byte) `secret_key` which was derived from legacy 16 byte key data, as well as necessary integration in wallet2 generate;

* converting legacy 16 byte key data to suitable normal 32 byte `secret_key`s for usage in wallet2/account; and

* mnemonic words<->bytes transforms to support 13-word seed mnemonics.

This PR does not include any specific integration with simplewallet (CLI) nor `src/wallet/api` (GUI).

Here's an example of how one might decode mnemonic strings of varying lengths from user input...

```
bool decoded_seed(
	std::string mnemonic_string,
	std::string mnemonic_language,
	MnemonicDecodedSeed_RetVals &retVals
) {
	retVals = {};
	//
	// sanitize inputs
	if (mnemonic_string.empty()) {
		retVals.did_error = true;
		retVals.err_string = "Please enter a valid seed";
		//
		return false;
	}
	boost::algorithm::to_lower(mnemonic_string); // critical
	// TODO: strip wrapping whitespace? anything else?
	//
	std::stringstream stream(mnemonic_string); // to count words…
	unsigned long word_count = std::distance(std::istream_iterator<std::string>(stream), std::istream_iterator<std::string>());
	//	unsigned long word_count = boost::range::distance(boost::algorithm::make_split_iterator(mnemonic_string, boost::algorithm::is_space())); // TODO: get this workin
	//
	crypto::secret_key sec_seed;
	std::string sec_seed_string;
	bool from_legacy16B_lw_seed = false;
	if (word_count == crypto::ElectrumWords::stable_32B_seed_mnemonic_word_count) {
		from_legacy16B_lw_seed = false; // to be clear
		bool r = crypto::ElectrumWords::words_to_bytes(mnemonic_string, sec_seed, mnemonic_language);
		if (!r) {
			retVals.did_error = true;
			retVals.err_string = "Invalid 25-word mnemonic";
			//
			return false;
		}
		sec_seed_string = string_tools::pod_to_hex(sec_seed);
	} else if (word_count == crypto::ElectrumWords::legacy_16B_seed_mnemonic_word_count) {
		from_legacy16B_lw_seed = true;
		crypto::legacy16B_secret_key legacy16B_sec_seed;
		bool r = crypto::ElectrumWords::words_to_bytes(mnemonic_string, legacy16B_sec_seed, mnemonic_language); // special 16 byte function
		if (!r) {
			retVals.did_error = true;
			retVals.err_string = "Invalid 13-word mnemonic";
			//
			return false;
		}
		crypto::coerce_valid_sec_key_from(legacy16B_sec_seed, sec_seed);
		sec_seed_string = string_tools::pod_to_hex(legacy16B_sec_seed); // <- NOTE: we are returning the _legacy_ seed as the string… this is important so we don't lose the fact it was 16B/13-word originally!
	} else {
		retVals.did_error = true;
		retVals.err_string = "Please enter a 25- or 13-word secret mnemonic.";
		//
		return false;
	}
	retVals.optl__sec_seed = sec_seed;
	retVals.optl__sec_seed_string = sec_seed_string;
	retVals.optl__mnemonic_string = mnemonic_string; 
	retVals.from_legacy16B_lw_seed = from_legacy16B_lw_seed;
	//
	return true;
}
```

In the following example, a secret key in hex string form is 

```
unsigned long sec_seed_string_length = sec_seed_string.length();
crypto::secret_key sec_seed;
bool from_legacy16B_lw_seed = false;
if (sec_seed_string_length == crypto::sec_seed_hex_string_length) { // normal seed
	from_legacy16B_lw_seed = false; // to be clear
	bool r = string_tools::hex_to_pod(sec_seed_string, sec_seed);
	if (!r) {
		outputs.did_error = true;
		outputs.err_string = "Invalid seed";
		//
		return false;
	}
} else if (sec_seed_string_length == crypto::legacy16B__sec_seed_hex_string_length) {
	from_legacy16B_lw_seed = true;
	crypto::legacy16B_secret_key legacy16B_sec_seed;
	bool r = string_tools::hex_to_pod(sec_seed_string, legacy16B_sec_seed);
	if (!r) {
		outputs.did_error = true;
		outputs.err_string = "Invalid seed";
		//
		return false;
	}
	crypto::coerce_valid_sec_key_from(legacy16B_sec_seed, sec_seed);
}
cryptonote::account_base expected_account{};
expected_account.generate(sec_seed, true/*recover*/, false/*two_random*/, from_legacy16B_lw_seed);
const cryptonote::account_keys& expected_account_keys = expected_account.get_keys();
// .... etc
```

There might be a slightly more rigorous method to detect the byte content of the seed and mnemonic than checking string length and word count. I've heard for example that luigi has done some work with 13-word seeds that encode 32 bytes of seed information rather than 16.

# Discussion History
## stoffu | 2018-02-18T07:03:01+00:00
- `const`?

- The same bikeshedding: are the consecutive underscores intentional?


## stoffu | 2018-02-23T13:40:24+00:00
- Probably bikeshedding, but why not write more compactly as `from_legacy16B_lw_seed ? first : m_keys.m_spend_secret_key`?


## stoffu | 2018-02-23T13:53:55+00:00
Another bikeshedding, but is it intentional that there are two consecutive underscores in `dst__sec_seed `?

## stoffu | 2018-02-23T13:59:18+00:00
Bikeshedding: maybe add a newline like the rest of the codebase?

## stoffu | 2018-02-23T14:13:04+00:00
I think this commit should be squashed to the first one so that it becomes a complete patch.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-23T23:53:25+00:00
Make this a `memcpy`, this is an aliasing violation.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-24T00:01:07+00:00
I like to trap potential pitfalls with future code modifcations:
```c++
static_assert(!epee::string_tools::has_padding<legacy16B_secret_key>(), "potential hash of padding data");
static_assert(!epee::string_tools::has_padding<secret_key>(), "writing to struct with extra data");
```
The latter isn't perfect, because it needs to be POD, but this gets close enough.

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T00:28:09+00:00
two reasons. I want the preferred supported primary path to be first (emphasize other cases are secondary) and calling out == false is just one of the things I have taken to doing for explicitness (i dont do it with true) and because ! is easy to miss 

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T01:03:19+00:00
yeah this is just what I have taken to doing when using snake case, because it allows one to create tokens within a code name... in camel case I'd use one underscore there instead. Doesn't matter at all to me though :)

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T01:04:05+00:00
Hmmm I'm not sure. I would say not in this case because the rest of the file does not do so but I could see why new code might want to do it.

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T01:06:23+00:00
Probably, thanks. My C++ inexperience shows. :)

## stoffu | 2018-02-24T07:05:27+00:00
Are these constants really needed in the first place?

## stoffu | 2018-02-24T07:10:26+00:00
> because the rest of the file does not do so

I'm not sure what you mean by this. This file, as well as probably all the source code in the codebase, ends with an empty line.


## stoffu | 2018-02-24T07:15:10+00:00
I don't think this will actually help improve the readability. The order of the conditional doesn't represent things being primary or secondary.  Just doing

```c++
&(from_legacy16B_lw_seed ? first : m_keys.m_spend_secret_key)
```

is shorter and simpler.


## stoffu | 2018-02-24T11:09:36+00:00
Do we really need this? I think we're primarily interested in being able to _read_ the 13-word seed, not write.

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T14:59:38+00:00
If you wanted to support 16 byte seeds then yes you do because you need to be able to display the 13 word seed as you cannot take a 16 byte seed and accurately turn it into 25 words for your users.

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T15:02:38+00:00
They were the way that I decided to encapsulate the declaration of constants I use for detecting seed and mnemonic size. electrum-words has something similar. I am very very open to suggestions as I am inexperienced in C++ and haven't developed my best practices yet.

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T15:03:48+00:00
Oh ok, I misinterpreted where the newline you were referring to would be. Thought you meant somewhere else.

## stoffu | 2018-02-24T15:27:46+00:00
I guess the definition of "support" is different between you and me. What I had in mind is to be able to turn a 13-word seed into a pair of spend & view secret keys. Note that this makes the wallet keys "non-deterministic" because the relation `viewkey == reduce32(hash(spendkey))` doesn't hold anymore. Therefore, the wallet can't print the 25-word seed, which I think (and @moneromooo-monero also seems to agree) is fine. The user can just keep that 13-word seed, or alternatively keep the spend & view secret keys directly.

If instead we are to support printing the 13-word seed, the wallet needs to store that 16-byte data separately. I.e., the relationships are now `spendkey == reduce32(hash(seed16))` and `viewkey == reduce32(hash(hash(seed16)))`, so the 16-byte seed data must be preserved in the wallet keys file in order to be able to print the 13-word seed. This can be of course implemented, but will involve quite a bit of additional code. I'm somewhat against that (but not absolutely).

If the former approach is to be taken, this function `bytes_to_words` is unnecessary.


## stoffu | 2018-02-24T15:31:24+00:00
The general principle in my view is that every new code must be justified by being strictly necessary and useful. Unused additional code should be avoided.

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T15:44:25+00:00
In MyMonero when the user enters their mnemonic we store the seed (under encryption), then if the user requests the mnemonic is displayed we have to have some way to convert the seed to the correct mnemonic. Without that requirement yeah not necessary :) But I'm sure people will want to use that function even if the CLI app doesn't need it. If libmonero is to be able to be considered for embedding in exchanges, wallets, and other utility code, I don't think we can limit the scope of use-cases to simplewallet. (Else I dont think they would have any need to exist as simplewallet is quite good at its use case. )

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T15:45:07+00:00
Code is used, If I may ask you to refer to my other comment. 

## stoffu | 2018-02-24T15:48:16+00:00
Can you provide a link?

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T15:53:47+00:00
https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/3281#discussion_r170424422

and, may I also suggest it as a best practice for simplewallet to use the electrum words seed word count constant declaration instead?

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T16:31:17+00:00
Squashed

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T17:41:39+00:00
I see your point. Will do

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T17:52:54+00:00
Hm this does require introducing a epee::string_tools include to crypto.cpp... and granted most people who want to use crypto.cpp are going to be including epee... and while we may want to steer away from that requirement going forward, I think the way to do so would actually be to break epee up instead (so we can e.g. get a string_tools w/o importing networking). So with that in mind I'll go ahead and add these asserts. 

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T17:54:44+00:00
Oops. Correction: it does not require including string_tools, as `has_padding` resides in `epee::`

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-24T18:20:34+00:00
This is done

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-25T00:13:24+00:00
Updated with 2141411. I didn't squash the commit because the aliasing violation appears to exist in the existing `crypto::secret_key` variation of `words_to_bytes` (which I was following) so I corrected both as a visible change.

## stoffu | 2018-02-25T03:08:38+00:00
These constants have been unnecessary in the codebase because we can just use `sizeof(secret_key)` and the hex string length is just the twice of the byte length. I still don't see the need for them.

## anonimal | 2018-02-25T03:32:27+00:00
>crypto::

These types don't need to be fully-qualified here (or elsewhere really, other than to keep consistency).

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-25T18:14:14+00:00
Re `sizeof(type)` very good point. Thanks. That lets me remove two of the four. 

So, to explain myself and my view of this case a bit, I do see the usefulness of encapsulating the hex string length calculation behind an 'accessor' style variable. It's amusingly virtually the most minimal case where such an argument would be valid imo but it makes sense in this case because people who want to do such detection would need such values and therefore the calculation would be spread across multiple places. The main argument I see for not having to add such declarations to a central relevant domain such as crypto is that we pretty much expect the derivation to (a) remain fairly trivial and (b) basically always have the same coefficient of `2`. But the code is accurate, relevant, and imo legitimately useful to library consumers, and so the implementation would end up getting duplicated across the codebase (as you can see my provided example code does use it with a slight readability advantage). But I think that this case is so trivial that it doesn't matter either way, so feel free to let me know how you'd like to close this one out. :) https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/3281/commits/39be5d5c3e5366a357036ebc438c5e2a13d0ac74#diff-620c6cce5b345413b6157f8d03f0c0d1R303 for your review

## paulshapiro | 2018-02-25T18:20:58+00:00
Good eye! thanks https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/3281/commits/fa67a4bdf507c1c3781e4609176ac5f149775d61#diff-1fbbac059f595e941719bce40a95484aR98

# Action History
- Created by: paulshapiro | 2018-02-17T04:27:23+00:00
