---
title: 'easylogging++: cached allowed categories'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/3702
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-04-25T13:31:46+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-06-20T19:02:32+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-06-20T19:02:31+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-06-20T19:02:31+00:00'
---

# Original Description
It turns out this can be fairly heavy when logging a lot

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2018-04-25T14:56:54+00:00
There is still a lot of cycles here just to determine whether something should be logged: (1) A lock must be acquired, (2) a `std::string` must be allocated (for the `std::map` call _until_ C++14 templated `std::map::find`), (3) _possibly_ walk this list + allocate another `std::string` again.

Is the wildcard matching useful? If no wildcard, the `std::deque` could be a `std::unordered_map` and then no caching would be needed. Or even a middle ground - the `std::deque` could be sorted, and then a `std::lower_bound` / `std::upper_bound` (ranged) search can still be done on the prefix before `*` or `?` characters.

At a minimum, I would suggest making this a `std::map<std::string, Level>` or `std::unordered_map<std::string, Level>`. Its going to reduce the number of entries needed, and a temporary `std::string` can be re-used (and even moved) from find to insert calls. Or just use `category` directly 3 times (like now), and make it C++14 ready.

## vtnerd | 2018-04-25T15:48:21+00:00
Crap, I got the wildcard pattern reversed - `category` is never wildcarded, only the map entry. There are actually two cases then, a map entry with a prefix, and one without. So a ranged search is still possible, but you would have to disallow non-prefixed categories or walk through them separately.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-04-25T16:26:14+00:00
Wildcards are useful.
If I use a map<string,Level>, then I think I'd need an extra fake level which is "nothing" to cache the case where a category is not found in the list.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-04-25T16:39:16+00:00
Actually I can just use ints since priority(Level) returns those, I'l try that.

## vtnerd | 2018-04-26T21:06:32+00:00
The source of the problem is that categories are strings. There are a limited number of categories that can come from the code, and therefore it should be based on an enumerated type. When someone sets/updates the log level string, the wildcard logic can be executed once against the fixed set of categories. When logging, this check becomes a constant operation, and the lock can even be removed by using atomics.

The upstream source doesn't have the category feature, so this source has already divered from upstream.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2018-04-25T13:31:46+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-06-20T19:02:31+00:00
