---
title: Update Home Page
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/359
author: tyrionmcmaster
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-08-22T18:25:25+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-10-20T22:12:51+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-08-31T09:21:25+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-08-31T09:21:25+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Please review and comment.

# Discussion History
## rehrar | 2017-08-22T21:20:58+00:00
Actually this needs an Oxford comma. "Monero is a secure, private, and untraceable cryptocurrency."

## rehrar | 2017-08-22T21:21:53+00:00
I agree with the first change, but the second sentence doesn't need to change. That's just my opinion.

## rehrar | 2017-08-22T21:23:12+00:00
I think it would be better if read: "Blockchain technology usually increases security at the cost of privacy." The rest is fine. You're missing a period at the end here.

## rehrar | 2017-08-22T21:23:49+00:00
Maybe 'obfuscated by default'?

## rehrar | 2017-08-22T21:25:10+00:00
We can't use the word 'never'. It was in the original copy, but was dropped because it's an absolute statement that puts a lot of trouble to back up. And I think a slightly longer explanation of what 'fungibility' is (like in the original) is warranted. Again, just my opinion.

Great work! Thanks for working on cleaning this up.

## QuickBASIC | 2017-08-23T12:12:48+00:00
I suggest we pull the updated verbiage out of #314 (_strings_en.yml). I don't like the almost accusatory language of "only you are responsible for your funds" and instead prefer instead suggesting that you have complete control. (Using positive language instead of negative.)
> Monero is a secure, private, untraceable currency that is open-source and freely available for anyone to use. With Monero, you are your own bank; You have complete control over your funds. 

## QuickBASIC | 2017-08-23T12:23:48+00:00
> the second sentence doesn't need to change

I think the whole line probably should be rewritten. Maybe:
`Due to it's decentralized nature, Monero cannot be hacked or stolen. The power of distributed consensus means that transactions are immutably recorded on the blockchain and you don't have to trust anyone to keep your Monero safe.`

(Distributed consensus link is gone on the live site... probably should just link to Moneropedia entry of the same name if it exists or it can be written.)

## QuickBASIC | 2017-08-23T12:33:07+00:00
> Monero's sophisticated privacy-centric technology

I think you're on the right track that this line needs to be updated. (It's a bit of puffery IMO.)

Maybe: `Blockchain technology usually increases security at the cost of privacy, but because Monero is built with ring-signatures, it has hidden amounts, destinations, and origins of transactions. That means it gains all the benefits of having a public blockchain, without any of the normal privacy concessions.`

## QuickBASIC | 2017-08-23T12:41:59+00:00
> Maybe 'obfuscated by default'?

I think `private by default` has become somewhat of a tagline for Monero. I think we should use it as much as possible if appropriate.

>Sending and receiving addresses as well as transacted amounts are obfuscated.

I think the word `hidden' is better in this context.

For SEO I think it might be good if we keep the word `Monero` in there somewhere. Maybe something like:
`With Monero, sending and recieving addresses are hidden and amounts are obfuscated. With ring-signatures, Monero makes it's ambiguous who is sending funds, and thus it's extremely unlikely that a transaction could be linked to a particular user or real-world identity.`

## QuickBASIC | 2017-08-23T12:49:23+00:00
> Privacy is always-on.

I think `private by default` has become somewhat of a tagline for Monero. I think we should use it as much as possible if appropriate.

>Therefore Monero is fungible

A leap. Maybe: 
`Because Monero is private by default, every transaction is private. That means that no Monero can be traced back to anything "nefarious". This means that Monero is truly fungible, every single Monero will always be equal to another. This makes it very unlikely that a particular Monero could ever be blacklisted.`


# Action History
- Created by: tyrionmcmaster | 2017-08-22T18:25:25+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-08-31T09:21:25+00:00
