---
title: 'Wallet2 + CLI wallet: UTF-8 support for filenames and paths under Windows'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/3313
author: rbrunner7
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-02-25T12:14:00+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-03-05T17:16:03+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-03-05T17:16:03+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-03-05T17:16:03+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This PR is the first part of a duo of PR's, the Monero one - the one for the Monero GUI is [PR #1141](https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/pull/1141).

Those 2 PR's fix a long-standing problem with names for files and paths on Windows: Wallets on Windows are not processed properly when either the wallet file names or the names of the containing directories contain any non-ASCII characters. See the following issues: [Monero GUI issue #199](https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/issues/199), [Monero GUI issue #1390](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/1390) (late 2016), [Monero issue #938](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/938), and possibly others.

The temporary fix for the GUI wallet has been to prohibit the creation of wallets with names that contain special characters - see [merged PR #226](https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/pull/226). The CLI wallet has no such temporary fix and just fails.

The solution has 2 principal parts: Activating UTF-8 support for the `boost::filesystem` classes (which is active per default on Linux, but must be activated/configured on Windows), and completely avoiding the `std` file stream classes.

As explained in detail in a comment in `contrib\epee\include\file_io_utils.h` the  `std::ifstream` and `std::ofstream` classes as implemented in the GNU C++ Library contained in MSYS2 do not work with filenames that contain any special characters, and it seems there is no way that could be implemented in some Monero code to fix that - the problem is in GNU standard libary code and MinGW header files.

Therefore the second, somewhat drastic part of the solution is reading and writing wallet and related files directly with Win32 API calls and also converting file names between UTF-8 and UTF-16 as needed by Win32 by directly using Windows calls. This code is in `contrib\epee\include\file_io_utils.h`.

With those changes `wallet2` now fully supports UTF-8 filenames on Windows, like it always did without problems on Linux. With only some small additional changes for the GUI wallet the problems for that application are therefore solved.

The CLI wallet is another story. Windows console windows and the `std` input/output objects like `std::cout` do not work with UTF-8 out of the box, and it's not clear whether this can be fixed with reasonable effort.

The UTF-8 support for the CLI wallet as implemented by this PR is quite rudimentary: Normal input (with the exception of password input) now translates from code page 850 to UTF-8 which makes it possible to open and process wallets with a range of mostly Western non-ASCII characters in their names like German umlauts äöü or French accented characters éèç.

More "exotic" characters like hanzi or kanji are still not possible in the CLI wallet, and all output of non-ASCII characters e.g. by commands like `wallet_info` will not be correct.

Because Qt fully supports UTF-8 the GUI wallet should have no such problems.


# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-26T09:25:29+00:00
Since the WIN32 code path here isn't actually gunky, I think you can make it the only one, it's simpler and will avoid some new code possibly copy the ofstream code path elsewhere.


## rbrunner7 | 2018-02-26T09:50:34+00:00
So in your opinion not to worry about the RAM allocation that gets a temporary spike 50 MB higher or so? I was thinking about people running Monero on Linux on VPS servers with as little RAM as possible to keep costs down. (But then maybe only daemons anyway, not wallets ...)

## stoffu | 2018-02-26T11:24:38+00:00
AIUI, the former (new) version using `ostringstream` + `save_string_to_file` and the latter (existing) version using `ofstream` would be doing effectively the same thing, even for non-Windows systems. Your concern about the increased RAM usage doesn't seem to apply because the definition of `save_string_to_file` wouldn't change for non-Windows.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-02-26T11:42:14+00:00
@stoffu: Ah, now I am confused :)

The way I see it: The solution so far holds around 50 MB of data in `cache_file_data` which the `ofstream`-based serializer will serialize and write out to file piece by piece without needing much more RAM than that.

My new solution for Windows of course also holds 50 MB of data in `cache_file_data` but serializes into the string behind `oss` which will grow to a size of another 50 MB and will be written to file all at once only at the very end.

Maybe I don't know enough how the serializer works in conjunction with a `ofstream`, maybe the data does **not** go to file piece by piece in the "old" solution? And do you mean to say that also the "old" solution uses `save_string_to_file` somehow?

## stoffu | 2018-02-26T11:49:41+00:00
Ah, I was wrong then:) There indeed is a difference between the two.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-26T12:10:07+00:00
I don't think 50 MB is a big problem at all, but if you think it is, I'm OK with it.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-02-26T13:35:40+00:00
Thanks, moneromooo, I really feel better letting it in: That way I am sure not to break something; those cache files will grow over time; and we have wallets now on smartphones as well.

# Action History
- Created by: rbrunner7 | 2018-02-25T12:14:00+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-03-05T17:16:03+00:00
