---
title: '[DONOT MERGE] Ledger HW code review 1'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/3095
author: cslashm
assignees: []
labels:
- duplicate
created_at: '2018-01-10T12:03:16+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-03-16T17:29:34+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2018-03-04T13:24:33+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
# Goals

The goal of this PR is to propose code modifications to integrate the ledger HW into 
monero-wallet-cli. This code mod is not ready to merge (see below) but it is
time to ask to the dev team and tech guys a first review for opinion.

# Approach

The basic approach it to delegate all sensitive data (master key, secret ephemeral key, key derivation, ....) and related operations to the device. As the device as low
memory the device do not keep itself the values (except for view/spend keys) but once
computed  there are encrypted (AES) and return back to monero-wallet-cli. When
they need to be manipulated by the device, they are decrypted on receive.

The code is modified at tow main levels:

. crypto operations, mainly crypto.cpp and cryptonote_format_utils.cpp
. signature level, mainly rctSigs.cpp and cryptonote_tx_utils.cpp

The pdf (https://github.com/LedgerHQ/blue-app-monero/blob/master/doc/developer/blue-app-monero.pdf) gives more details (but is a little be obsolete)

The application device is located at https://github.com/LedgerHQ/blue-app-monero.

As the transaction is constructed several times, the device signature operates in tow
modes: "FAKE" and "REAL". In fake mode, the device signs the the transaction with
random key without asking anything to the use. In real mode, the device use the
right keys and ask the user to valid (on the HW screen) fees, destinations, amounts.
For now this is handled in wallet2.cpp:7015.

NEEDHELP: some time the real mode switch and resign fails and the correct signature is not generated. There is certainly a better way to do that :)

# What is supported

*Creation and Restore*
  
A new command line option has been added: --generate-from-device

*Spend/receive money

*Subaddress*

Seems to work.


# More to come

I will look at Export/Import Keyimage 

I hope to add multi-sig.

LightWallet need be more studied

more....

# DO NOT MERGE

There is some clean up to do. NEEDHELP to fix. Review to merge. Commands to 
lock when device is used (unsupported commands ....). TX mutex to manage. Security to add. ....



# Discussion History
## jroelofs | 2018-01-10T18:50:11+00:00
The compiler *will* optimize out this dead memset, leaving that key data on the stack.

Use `scrubbed_arr<char, 200> prekey` instead.

## jroelofs | 2018-01-10T18:59:01+00:00
This writes into offset 4 again, instead of 6, over-writing what was stored on line 523. Is that intentional?

## jroelofs | 2018-01-10T19:00:09+00:00
This writes into offset 4 again, instead of 6, over-writing what was stored on line 487. Is that intentional?

## cslashm | 2018-01-11T07:34:19+00:00
Yes It is. Code is today not optimized to help debug and update.

Command in buffer_send is 

        00(u8) INS(u8) P1(u8) P1(u8) LEN(8) PAYLOAD(LEN bytes)

## cslashm | 2018-01-11T07:35:16+00:00
OK, noted. 


## cslashm | 2018-01-11T07:36:11+00:00
See above. All command use the same template. It will be factorized.

Thanks for all your comments

# Action History
- Created by: cslashm | 2018-01-10T12:03:16+00:00
- Closed at: 2018-03-04T13:24:33+00:00
