---
title: Add Depends to monero
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/3430
author: sedited
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-03-18T16:28:11+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-10-17T12:00:37+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-09-18T14:36:34+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-09-18T14:36:34+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Depends is a localized cross compilation environment originally developed by Cory Fields. It allows its users to create cross compiled binaries for 32 and 64 bit linux and windows, arm hf, aarch64 and macos.

This pull request places depends into contrib/depends. The required monero dependencies are generated for each platform triplet (for example `x86_64-w64-mingw32`) and saved in their own directory in depends. Recipes for each package can be found in `contrib/depends/packages`, `packages.mk` defines the packages used for each platform triplet. The allowed ${triplet}'s are: `i686-w64-mingw32`, `x86_64-w64-mingw32`, `x86_64-apple-darwin11`, `x86_64-linux-gnu`, `i686-linux-gnu`, `arm-linux-gnueabihf` and `aarch64-linux-gnu`.

Libraries and tools are generated in depends by running `make HOST=${triplet}`. This step first downloads tar archives of the required dependency source files and places them in sources/. These archives are then checked for their sha256sum hash and compared with a hardcoded value in the package recipe.  They are then extracted and placed into work/build during a build process. After building the package binaries/libraries are installed in work/staging . Once completed their staging directory is compressed and placed into built/ , after which their content in work/ is deleted. When every package is in built/ their archives are decompressed into ${triple}/ . This is where the monero build system will pick them up from. 

A cmake toolchain file is uniquely generated for ${triple} and placed in `contrib/depends/${triplet}/share/toolchain.cmake`. They can then be accessed by the monero build system by executing for example: ``cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=`pwd`/contrib/depends/${triplet}/share/toolchain.cmake`` . The toolchain file also sets the DEPENDS variable to identify a depends build to the monero build system. This is used to exclude some additions from external as well as correcting some make flags.

General usage is also briefly reflected in the Readme.md under "Building portable statically linked binaries".

### Example of a depends build for 64 bit windows: 

Install build essentials, nsis and g++-mingw-w64-x86-64 on your host system. Then:
```
    cd contrib/depends
    make HOST=x86_64-w64-mingw32
```
Once it is finished building go back to the root directory and execute: 
```
    cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=`pwd`/contrib/depends/x86_64-w64-mingw32/share/toolchain.cmake
```

### Advantages of using depends:
- Serves as a basis for reproducible builds on all plattforms
- Allows cross compilation of windows and macos monero binaries
- Having a standardized and well defined list of dependencies used in the project.
- Vendored dependencies can now be source controlled from their original repository 

One of the things changed that also affect builds other than with the depends system is lowercasing the winsock header include.
Another is that in this pull request the usage of unwind on windows is disable in the source code. Some discussion needs to be had about it. In its current form it only allows builds from depends.

Further topics that need to be discussed are the combinations of system and processor architecture pairs that need to be able to be passed to the monero build system for armv6, v7 and v8. 

I realize this is hard to review, and if there is anything I can do to make it easier, do not hesitate to leave suggestions. So far I tested binaries for linux and windows 64bit. 

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2018-03-19T22:09:20+00:00
That should not be overridden (or there should be a user override).

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-03-19T22:13:31+00:00
That might be better off done in the caller, since it's find macro ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-03-19T22:23:32+00:00
Please remove :)

## sedited | 2018-03-19T22:52:21+00:00
This is a travis CI instruction set. Why is the override problematic? I only included it, because it is quite useful, but basically it does not much more than the current build bot. 

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-03-20T00:46:27+00:00
Because building monero gobbles up a lot of RAM and 3 jobs means at least 6 GB. 

## sedited | 2018-03-20T01:07:17+00:00
This was actually not needed anymore. Removed.

## sedited | 2018-03-20T01:18:29+00:00
Removed MAKEJOBS.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-09-11T08:40:22+00:00
Conflict markers

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-09-11T08:41:09+00:00
crypt32 ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-09-11T08:42:45+00:00
Does this mean the build process actually downloads stuff ? If it does, does it actually execute it ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-09-11T08:46:43+00:00
Does this not defeat the point or being able to check a hash, rather than diff binaries and work out that all differences are down to timestamps (which may be pretty hard for a non expert) ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-09-11T08:47:08+00:00
That probably answers my question above, seems good.

## iDunk5400 | 2018-09-16T15:03:11+00:00
crypt32 is needed on Windows, yes.

## sedited | 2018-09-18T09:28:21+00:00
getmonero should make the sources available as well, so we can change the download path from bitcoincore.org to getmonero.org .

## Technohacker | 2018-10-02T10:53:43+00:00
This part seems incomplete, I think it's supposed to be ```cmake -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=`pwd`/contrib/depends/x86_64-w64-mingw32/share/toolchain.cmake```

## sedited | 2018-10-02T14:23:57+00:00
Yes, this is wrong. Do you want to correct it? If you do, please move the section back up to `### Building portable statically linked binaries (Cross Compiling)` . It seemed to have slipped down on my final rebase. Bit annoyed that the pr was still not in the best of states when it got merged.

## Technohacker | 2018-10-02T15:41:27+00:00
I'll get it done tomorrow :)

# Action History
- Created by: sedited | 2018-03-18T16:28:11+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-09-18T14:36:34+00:00
