---
title: 'fcmp++: fix restoring tree cache on scan error'
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/37
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-05-02T04:41:46+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-05-02T18:19:35+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-05-02T16:26:48+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-05-02T16:26:48+00:00'
---

# Original Description
**Context**

When processing a chunk of blocks in wallet2, the "tree cache" and the "wallet scanner" make progress in separate threads, and when both are done, I make sure they've processed to the same block at the end of `process_parsed_blocks`.

It's possible that the wallet scanner encounters an error part way through scanning a chunk of blocks (e.g. identifies a receive and user needs to provide their password), and then stops progressing and throws an error. However, the tree cache continues its work for the full chunk of blocks. Thus, when handling the wallet scanner error, we need to be sure to reconcile this discrepancy and make sure that the tree cache ends up at the same block as the scanner.

**The problem**

 When the tree cache advanced > 100 blocks past the wallet scanner (i.e. the discrepancy between wallet scanner and tree cache exceeds the max reorg depth), the tree cache was not able to recover properly because it was throwing away data from before the reorg depth that it would need in order to get the tree to the correct state.
 
 **The solution**
 
 Add a function `TreeCache<C1, C2>::shrink_to_reorg_depth()` so that when wallet2 encounters the wallet scan error, it can delay throwing away potentially needed data until after it has reached parity with the wallet scanner.
 
 **Other stuff in this PR**
 
 Sorry I also threw in some other stuff here I've been wanting to do in a cleanup pass that I initially thought I would need for this:

- Implemented a const `prepare_to_grow_cache` function which returns a struct we can use to call `grow_cache`. This replaces the `prepare_to_sync_blocks` and `process_synced_blocks` functions respectively. I didn't like how `prepare_to_sync_blocks` made stateful changes to the cache, it complicated the mental model for the cache. This feels cleaner (although represents the bulk of changes in this PR and wasn't exactly required to solve the bug).
- Demoted some debug statements to log level 3 to cut down on some noise.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2025-05-02T16:21:41+00:00
Why not `MTRACE`?

## j-berman | 2025-05-02T18:19:35+00:00
Didn't think of it *shrugs*

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2025-05-02T04:41:46+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-05-02T16:26:48+00:00
