---
title: 'simplewallet: ignore ^C while in password entry'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/3222
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-02-01T14:14:33+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-02-04T17:07:33+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2018-02-02T19:43:36+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
It would be nice to cancel password entry, but that seems a bit
more involved, so left for later. For now, this avoids exiting
and leaving the console in "hidden" mode, and apparently fixes
a segfault (which I could not reproduce).

# Discussion History
## jtgrassie | 2018-02-01T15:00:46+00:00
This needs wrapping in HAVE_READLINE

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-01T15:19:33+00:00
Fixed, thanks.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-01T18:43:48+00:00
The current implementation is equivalent to a `std::atomic<bool>`, but atomic would save a bit when reading the value since the cacheline doesn't have to be dirtied.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-01T18:45:10+00:00
One thing to consider, is whether multiple instances can be created. I do not think that is possible - that would imply multiple UI threads. But ... this would not be keeping accurate state in that scenario.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-01T18:46:20+00:00
There is no reason for inheritance here. I would just create this separate class as a standalone, and then put `rdln::suspend_readline` as a member internally. The same goal is achieved. The benefit is that `~rdln::suspend_readline()` can remain non-virtual.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-01T18:50:17+00:00
This will always be racy unless the lock is acquired in the signal handler and held throughout the entire call. That would violate the behavior that can be done in a signal handler, which means this patch is violating signal handler rules in this function call (and several existing issues below remain). Also, my `atomic<bool>` suggested is _not_ making it racy, it is racy either way.

Based on the PR description, there is likely some funky interaction with joining the console thread in the signal handler itself. That probably is not a good idea, because I think you can end up trying to join from within the same thread and then the process ... aborts? I think the correct fix is a little more involved unfortunately, it is most likely in the shutdown routine.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-01T18:55:19+00:00
This is not signal handler safe. Although the calls to `w.interrupt()` and `w.stop()` aren't either due to their implementations

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-01T20:13:05+00:00
Is that a benefit ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-01T20:13:21+00:00
It may be true, but this is safe.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-01T20:15:18+00:00
I used a std::atomic at first, but I had trouble. I don't think I really care about tiny cache improvements in something that happens in relation to user input and signals though :) Nonetheless, I'm curious to know more about "the cachelin doesn't have to be dirtied" if you don't mind. You mean less code using an atomic, or something else ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-01T20:17:14+00:00
Hmm, good point about the race. However, it would need the user to input ^C really fast after sending a command, so it pretty unlikely.
This is kinda moot anyway, since jtgrassie mentioned fixing this in the read_from_tty code, which is better anyway and will moot my patch.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-01T20:17:50+00:00
OK, true. Moot with jtgrassie's suggestion anyway.

## jtgrassie | 2018-02-01T20:39:21+00:00
I have been playing with the read_from_tty but am not yet able to properly fix. Using select with various timeout options and checking its errno for E_INTR on return -1, does work but it blocks the displaying of the password prompt. I think this is the place to fix so it's universal (i.e. not tied to readline) just I haven't found a solution yet! Sorry.

## jtgrassie | 2018-02-01T20:44:21+00:00
Been messing around with this. Would love some direction / help.
```
diff --git a/src/common/password.cpp b/src/common/password.cpp
index ef026c97..182d9f0b 100644
--- a/src/common/password.cpp
+++ b/src/common/password.cpp
@@ -40,6 +40,7 @@
 #else
 #include <termios.h>
 #include <unistd.h>
+#include <sys/select.h>
 #endif
 
 #ifdef HAVE_READLINE
@@ -126,13 +127,29 @@ namespace
     return ch;
   }
 
+  static fd_set fds;
+
   bool read_from_tty(epee::wipeable_string& aPass)
   {
     static constexpr const char BACKSPACE = 127;
+    struct timeval t;
+    t.tv_sec = 1;
+    t.tv_usec = 0;
+    FD_ZERO(&fds);
+    FD_SET(STDIN_FILENO, &fds);
+
 
     aPass.reserve(tools::password_container::max_password_size);
     while (aPass.size() < tools::password_container::max_password_size)
     {
+      int sr = select(FD_SETSIZE, &fds, NULL, NULL, &t);
+
+      if(sr == -1)
+        return false;
+
+      if(sr == 0)
+        continue;
+
       int ch = getch();
       if (EOF == ch)
       {
```

## vtnerd | 2018-02-01T21:22:07+00:00
This is the first and only virtual method for `suspend_readline`. It requires a vtable to be placed in static memory, and a hidden pointer for every `suspend_readline` object that points to that vtable (or `simple_suspend_wallet` vtable). In addition, destructing the object is no longer a direct function call, and becomes an indirect call through the vtable (and thus can mess with the CPU pipeline a bit).

Plus, there is no reason to use inheritance at all from an implementation perspective, so why make such a tight coupling. 

## vtnerd | 2018-02-01T21:24:10+00:00
Acquiring a lock requires modifying some memory location associated with that lock. Internally the system must wait for all cores across all cpus for exclusive access to that cacheline before proceeding. Reading an atomic variable requires no changes to the cacheline before proceeding. The only exception is if you used a speculative lock instruction which is highly unlikely to ever be used for `boost::mutex` on x86-64 platforms due to its limitations (it would break lots of existing code).

## vtnerd | 2018-02-01T21:26:56+00:00
If its the same thing, with the exception of the cacheline dirtying discussed below, then why do it? If there was a problem it was likely due to the existing race that is made more obvious with the faster read calls.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-01T21:35:21+00:00
Let me walk that back a bit ... I'm not sure that the atomic was highlighting a race in the existing code, because I haven't seen a clear description as to the problem. The PR description states that sometimes the terminal is left with echoing off. If that is what you have observed? Why is that happening? The read_tty functions are `noexcept` with only C calls, so it should never exit without turning the echo back on, unless an immediate termination is being done (in that function or elsewhere).

EDIT: This was actually meant for the comment above ("If there was a problem it was likely due to the existing race ...").

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-01T22:20:31+00:00
The problem was not one of race, but one of the signal triggering a wallet exit while the input was set to noecho. The password read thread was waiting till enter to finish and let the program end, which was also confusing.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-01T22:22:17+00:00
Again, safety. It's accessed by the thread that goes into read, and by whatever thread gets the signal.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-01T22:53:32+00:00
Not that I care that much, but there is certainly a reason to use inheritance: it adds some extra behaviour to the base class.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-02T07:19:06+00:00
The PR description says the console was left in hidden mode. Is that the behavior, or blocking program termination until enter is pressed? And how would this fix the issue referenced?

## vtnerd | 2018-02-02T07:19:38+00:00
What behavior does it add to the base class? The indirect destruction call? That isn't desireable or necessary.

Or did you mean that functionality from the base class is automatically "inherited" and exposed by the derived class? The base class only has two public functions - the constructor and destructor. The only advantage would be if some future modification to the base class adds a function that this file needs. Why be concerned about that? It is easier to just place `suspend_readline` as a member to `simplewallet_suspend_readline` right now. 

## vtnerd | 2018-02-02T08:07:04+00:00
The situation is the opposite - writing to a `std::atomic` is one of the few things that can be done safely in a signal handler. Accessing an atomic is only problematic when  `atomic<bool>::is_lock_free == false`, which is extremely unlikely and can be checked via `static_assert`. And the only way the atomic implementation can be botched is to use non-default memory fencing with the read/writes, preventing the reader from synchronizing with the writer.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-02T08:20:51+00:00
Both.And it fixes it by ignoring the signal when in a password entry.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-02T13:13:07+00:00
OK

## jtgrassie | 2018-02-02T13:41:49+00:00
Why default `in_password` to `true`? Basically, as implemented, the question is "is readline suspended?" which doesn't really address the fact that the problem is actually in password_container:: read_from_tty AFAICT.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-02T14:39:49+00:00
I guess it should be "in_input" rather, yes. But we don't care since this gets mooted when you push the read_from_tty fix.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-02T16:18:27+00:00
Why is the fix only applied to readline builds? What is happening in the signal handler during readline builds to cause this issue? Think about it this way, there is a call to a C function `getchar()` between the enabling and disabling of the command line echo. How is the enable echo function call being skipped? Is an exception thrown in that C function? Or is the process immediately terminating? Because the issue is almost certainly immediate program termination, which could be an issue in non-readline builds (since we have not determined the source of the program termination). If this "fixes" it, then something in the `SIGINT` handler can cause program termination unexpectedly.

A slightly better fix would be to use `sigprocmask` before disabling the echo. This way if any signal is sent to the process - even signals with default program termination - the process will not process them until the echo is turned back on. This will help alleviate the echo being disabled issue, but doesn't fix some woes in the signal handler or the block until enter issue.

The issue causing immediate program termination might be a [self join](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/contrib/epee/include/console_handler.h#L117). If the OS chooses the thread associated with that object to handle the signal, it will ultimately try to join itself. The call _probably_ throws then immediately terminates when the stack unwind hits the OS. This would cause the program to terminate while inside of the `getchar()` function, preventing the echo enabling.

[There is also a destruction race that starts here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L5717). That call tells a thread to exit the command processing loop, which eventually [returns to here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L6825). If the OS uses a thread other than the main one or the one created in the console handler, the signal handler could still be executing when the main thread is cleaning up the stack for `main` itself. I'm not sure what happens here, but it cannot be right because the process has many exit routines to perform even after everything in the `main` function has been destroyed (i.e. the process is still active).

Fixing the blocking issue is a little more involved. Switching to `read` without signal blocking is not a fix - the handler can execute between the check for shutdown and the call to `read`. Use of `select` has the same problem. Using `pselect` with the sigmask field would be closer, but the handler would have to be fixed. Another intriguing option is to block signals, then use `signalfd` (linux specific) and the equivalent in BSD to have `select` notify of when a signal arrives. 

## jtgrassie | 2018-02-02T17:50:17+00:00
> Why is the fix only applied to readline builds? 

Agreed. It's not a readline issue, rather an issue in password_container. I have been trying to fix (unsuccessfully) and could do with some help. 


## jtgrassie | 2018-02-02T18:24:51+00:00
@vtnerd after reading through your detailed comment (thanks btw) a couple of times, I think you are totally correct - and this issue is far more involved than first impressions. It also explains why I was having issues modifying read_from_tty using various select semantics. I never had a crash, but either echo didn't start / restore correctly.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-02T19:43:17+00:00
That's a very good point :)
But anyway, it'll be fixed by the read_from_tty fix anyway. I'll close it, it's just generating lots of stuff for a patch that's already been found to be worse than another.

## jtgrassie | 2018-02-04T09:47:28+00:00
> A slightly better fix would be to use sigprocmask before disabling the echo. This way if any signal is sent to the process - even signals with default program termination - the process will not process them until the echo is turned back on. This will help alleviate the echo being disabled issue, but doesn't fix some woes in the signal handler or the block until enter issue.

I tried this today and it still didn't work. Program quit before echo turned back on.

## jtgrassie | 2018-02-04T17:07:32+00:00
@vtnerd OK I got the signal blocking working to fix the echo restore issue. Now am hitting up against:
> The issue causing immediate program termination might be a self join. If the OS chooses the thread associated with that object to handle the signal, it will ultimately try to join itself. The call probably throws then immediately terminates when the stack unwind hits the OS. 

```
Wallet password: libc++abi.dylib: terminating with uncaught exception of type boost::exception_detail::clone_impl<boost::exception_detail::error_info_injector<boost::thread_resource_error> >: boost thread: trying joining itself: Resource deadlock avoided
Abort trap: 6


frame #8: 0x00000001017d54d7 monero-wallet-cli`void boost::throw_exception<boost::thread_resource_error>(e=0x000070000007fff0) + 119 at throw_exception.hpp:69
frame #9: 0x000000010179aded monero-wallet-cli`boost::thread::join(this=0x00007fff5e4fec40) + 125 at thread.hpp:773
frame #10: 0x00000001017fe6bf monero-wallet-cli`epee::async_stdin_reader::stop(this=0x00007fff5e4fec40) + 287 at console_handler.h:117
```

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-01T14:14:33+00:00
- Closed at: 2018-02-02T19:43:36+00:00
