---
title: 'wallet: saner hf version validity check for FCMP++'
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/350
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2026-04-29T23:16:02+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-05-03T19:40:05+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This includes a saner check that FCMP++ compatible wallets *must* point to FCMP++ compatible daemons even before the fork. Recall they must do so in order to sync the tree.

Note: we should expect **all** FCMP++ compatible daemons to return `daemon_hard_forks` to the `get_version` RPC, so we can get rid of all the logic handling the case when it's empty.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2026-05-01T22:31:02+00:00
The `target_height` change is backwards incompatible (the field is sometimes 0 during normal operation [src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/22d35df8e0520ce780bbd3fcefbdda2a38ebffd4/src/rpc/core_rpc_server.cpp#L3068)) and will cause new wallets to error out on old daemons during serialization, instead of setting `daemon_is_outdated` 

## j-berman | 2026-05-02T02:21:06+00:00
Earlier v18 daemons don't serve these fields at all, so valid point, but I don't think it matters that the field is sometimes 0, no? Should still serve a 0-value field. I'm thinking after the hard fork, we should be able to make these fields mandatory

## jeffro256 | 2026-05-02T21:18:12+00:00
> Should still serve a 0-value field.

No, `KV_SERIALIZE_OPT` will omit the field entirely during serialization if the value is 0. But since the wallet uses `KV_SERIALIZE`, it will error out if the field isn't present on deserialization. So old daemon + new wallet = error on deserialization.

> I'm thinking after the hard fork, we should be able to make these fields mandatory

To make this transition smooth, we would need a something like `KV_SERIALIZE_OPT`, but one which always adds the field on serialization. 

## jeffro256 | 2026-05-02T21:32:13+00:00
This won't work for forks of Monero, like Wownero. We should comapre against the *last* fork version in the fork table, not the size of the table.

## jeffro256 | 2026-05-02T21:38:33+00:00
Also, is this not redundant, caught by the immediately preceding logic?

## j-berman | 2026-05-03T19:33:02+00:00
> No, KV_SERIALIZE_OPT will omit the field entirely during serialization if the value is 0

Ah, you're right. Good call.

> To make this transition smooth, we would need a something like KV_SERIALIZE_OPT, but one which always adds the field on serialization.

How bout a new `KV_SERIALIZE_INCLUDE_OPT`?

## j-berman | 2026-05-03T19:40:05+00:00
> This won't work for forks of Monero, like Wownero

As in it won't work for people who fork the code and try to use it in their fork, like Wownero? Or won't work if a Monero wallet is pointing to a Wownero daemon? I'd assume you meant the former -- I don't think we should be expected to write functional code for all potential forks of Monero. Seems like we could end up with esoteric edge cases to manage if we go down that route.

> Also, is this not redundant, caught by the immediately preceding logic?

This logic here makes sure that the FCMP++ compatible wallet is pointing to FCMP++ compatible daemon, even before the fork height has passed.

The fork check currently done unrelated to this is making sure that if the daemon supports the fork, that the fork height hasn't already passed.

I could move this logic here into `if (daemon_outdated)`, first check for this and return false if not pointing to an FCMP++ compatible daemon right away (even if the fork height hasn't passed).

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2026-04-29T23:16:02+00:00
