---
title: Update "Using Monero" page
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/381
author: tyrionmcmaster
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-09-01T15:44:40+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-10-20T22:12:38+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-09-09T15:09:13+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-09-09T15:09:13+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Please review and comment. 

# Discussion History
## erciccione | 2017-09-01T16:33:37+00:00
Why this is left empty? I think a short introduction would be nice

## QuickBASIC | 2017-09-01T17:11:01+00:00
If we're going to use `Obtain Monero` for the next section I think we should probably pick another verb here.  (`Getting` is fine IMO and `Obtain` sounds a bit stodgy in this context.)

`your own` is redundant. If they're mine (your), then who else would they belong to.

Honestly, I think also think we need to disambiguate from the beginning the difference between a wallet (the software) and a wallet (an account). I think `account` is the preferred term with the developers for this very reason. Maybe:
 
> <p>A Monero wallet is the software that's used secure your funds. See the <a href="/downloads/">downloads page</a> for a listing of available wallets. This will allow you to establish an account that only you control.</p>

## QuickBASIC | 2017-09-01T17:21:48+00:00
> One may

Although `you` and `one` are both considered impersonal/indefinite pronouns we should probably avoid mixing them. Generally `you` is considered more informal/friendly in American English. Also,  `may` connotes permission where `can` permits capability to do so. Perhaps: `You can purchase`.

Also, this might be a great spot to insert something about mining.

## QuickBASIC | 2017-09-01T17:24:57+00:00
`Transact` is a bit impersonal. Perhaps change to `Using`.

# Action History
- Created by: tyrionmcmaster | 2017-09-01T15:44:40+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-09-09T15:09:13+00:00
