---
title: touching up the wording on the main page
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/396
author: apezio
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-09-10T22:16:07+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-10-20T22:12:30+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2017-09-21T16:53:12+00:00'
merged_at: '2017-09-21T16:53:12+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Monero is secure
Do we really want the first sentence about the security of Monero to include "extremely difficult to hack and steal your funds. "  To me that doesn't sound safe for large amounts if it's only "extremely difficult"... and why mention "hack" and "steal" at all?  Further, if you are trying to define "decentralized cryptocurrency" the definition is absolutely NOT "extremely difficult to hack and steal your funds.".  You could say the same of cash in a bank vault, an ATM machine, a centralized currency, or the safe in my basement...  Those are all "extremely difficult to hack and steal" from.  It seems to me we should be explaining what decentralized cryptocurrency is and perhaps state it's the safest method known to mankind to store value, outside of Fort Knox.  Not that its just hard to hack and steal.


Monero is fungible - if we're going to say it's untraceable above, we may as well remove the whole "In its current state, it is extremely unlikely that Monero will ever be..." and just bluntly state that it will never be blacklisted due to previous association.  Also, very few people know what fungible even means, so I have added the definition so people know what they're reading.

# Discussion History
## QuickBASIC | 2017-09-10T22:51:52+00:00
We shouldn't use `never`. Never can be construed as a legal claim. The language in this sentence has been discussed in previous PRs for this file.

## QuickBASIC | 2017-09-10T22:54:07+00:00
`open network of users`

Needs disambiguation. `network operated by it's users`, maybe?

## QuickBASIC | 2017-09-10T22:59:36+00:00
`encyclopedia`? It doesn't attempt to cover all topics. `wiki` or `resource` might be better.

Honestly I prefer the friendly conversational tone on the front page and more impersonal tone on the moneropedia.

## QuickBASIC | 2017-09-10T23:01:12+00:00
This is the landing page for new users to Monero, who may also be newer to crypto, I think we should keep language simple. The moneropedia can use more direct terms.

## apezio | 2017-09-10T23:45:07+00:00
Good point, I agree.

## apezio | 2017-09-10T23:48:40+00:00
Either way.  "its" not "it's" in this case I think.

## apezio | 2017-09-10T23:50:51+00:00
The line "Third-parties do not need to be trusted to keep your Monero safe." made me think that third-parties can hold your Monero even if you dont trust them, and your Monero would be safe anyhow.  Obviously it's the opposite...

## apezio | 2017-09-10T23:52:34+00:00
I like "resource".  Was thinking encylopedia as in "Moneropedia".  I thought Moneropedia was a play on encyclopedia, but "pedia" itself pertains to learning in general.

## QuickBASIC | 2017-09-10T23:55:19+00:00
Probably a play on Wikipedia.

## QuickBASIC | 2017-09-10T23:59:10+00:00
Sorry on mobile, so wrong `its`. You're right. Yeah, I agree that line needs to be rewritten for clarity. I think the intent of that line is intended to say something about how the parties that contribute to consensus are not privy to your info, so you don't have to trust them.

## QuickBASIC | 2017-09-11T00:06:44+00:00
`creating a wallet to recovering a wallet`

Maybe `create a wallet to setting up a node`, so it shows a dichotomy between easy informational stuff and more technical stuff.

## QuickBASIC | 2017-09-11T00:12:00+00:00
Sorry, if I wasn't clear. Maybe if you clarify that a specific coin can't be blacklisted (because it's funglible)... The wording here isn't clear because it reads as of Monero as a whole can't be blacklisted by an exchange.

## apezio | 2017-09-11T03:42:55+00:00
Yes!  Thats what I wanted to do! :D :D  great change.

## apezio | 2017-09-11T03:50:12+00:00
I think 'node' may even be too abstract for the main page, so I used `creating a wallet to supporting the network`.  This hits manys goals; it creates the dichotomy, informs the reader they as an individual can help Monero and likewise Monero is supported by users like them.  

Also it ties into the text from the 'Monero is Secure' section: `... cash powered by a network operated by its users`.

## tyrionmcmaster | 2017-09-12T22:55:03+00:00
Monero is fungible because it is private by default. Monero will not be blacklisted by exchanges or vendors due to its association in previous transactions.

## tyrionmcmaster | 2017-09-12T22:55:14+00:00
Monero is a decentralized cryptocurrency, meaning like Bitcoin, it is extremely difficult to hack and steal your funds. Transactions are confirmed by distributed consensus, and then immutably recorded on the blockchain. Your are your own bank and third parties do not need to be trusted to keep your Monero safe.



# Action History
- Created by: apezio | 2017-09-10T22:16:07+00:00
- Merged at: 2017-09-21T16:53:12+00:00
