---
title: '[RELEASE] Monero Cryptonight variants, and add one for v7'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/3253
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-02-12T14:48:47+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-04-16T11:54:01+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-03-06T06:41:23+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-03-06T06:41:23+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This is the first variant of many, with the intent to improve
Monero's resistance to ASICs and encourage mining decentralization.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2018-02-13T03:31:59+00:00
I think `nonce_flag` should be determined by a byte/bit in the first keccak hash. User input cannot influence the selection of the `nonce_flag` flag (without breaking keccack pre-image resistance), and the `length < 43` check is no longer needed. Or is the goal to "drag" something across the hash ?

## vtnerd | 2018-02-13T04:03:08+00:00
 @SChernykh -> The logic table:

| `tmp` (bits 5,4) / nonce_flag | `tmp3` | `tmp0` | `p[11]` (bits 5, 4) |
|------------------------------------------|-----------|-----------|--------------------------|
|                 00 / 0                 |    0     |    00    |         00             |
|                 00 / 1                 |    0     |    00    |         00             |
|                 01 / 0                 |    1     |    10    |         11             |
|                 01 / 1                 |    1     |    01    |         01             |
|                 10 / 0                 |    1     |    10    |         10             |
|                 10 / 1                 |    1     |    01    |         11             |
|                 11 / 0                 |    0     |    10    |         11             |
|                 11 / 1                 |    0     |    00    |         11             |

There is a bias towards 11 for bits 5,4 now. Based on this table, this algorithm is likely better off it does (01 -> 10) when `!nonce_flag` and (10->01) when `nonce_flag` (everything else is doing nothing anyway).
```c++
uint8_t tmp = p[11];
uint8_t tmp1 = ((tmp & 0x18) == 0x08) ? 0x10 : tmp);
uint8_t tmp2 = ((tmp & 0x18) == 0x10) ? 0x08 : tmp);
p[11] = nonce_flag ? tmp1 : tmp2;
```
Its _practically_ the same thing, but much easier to read. Again, the only functional difference is that the mapping flips the bytes in the only two scenarios where the values are changing in this patch.

Also, why the `tmp & 0xef` ? This simply drops the high bit, what about `tmp ^ (tmp & 0x80)` instead? The high bit is still modified, but isn't fixed to zero. All of these changes have less math operations, and two additional cmov ops (or branching, in worst case).

EDIT: typo in last bitmask.
EDIT: corrected block of code, sorry for those reading via email.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-13T04:33:46+00:00
Whats the purpose of the alias? Why not just call the other one?

## SChernykh | 2018-02-13T06:34:53+00:00
I think your logic table and the resulting code is incorrect. For example, 01 / 0 should result in p[11] (bits 5, 4) = 10, not 11. I tested mine by running through all 256 values and comparing results with the original macro.

P.S. I've read your comment again. So you're suggesting a slightly different macro, not the same mathematically?

P.P.S. You new suggested macro replaces half of the input values with 0x10 or 0x08, depending on the nonce_flag. Did you forget to add some XOR manipulations?

## vtnerd | 2018-02-13T20:52:34+00:00
I did get my masks wrong, in that they were masking one bit over from this patch (the bitshifting is zero based, dummy me), but otherwise the table is correct AFAIK. The 01 / 0  case you mentioned:

tmp = 0y00010000
tmp1 = 0y00000001
tmp2 = 0y00000000
tmp3 = 0y00000001
tmp0 = 0y00000010
p[11] = 0y00110000

The difference in our observations are that I was referring to (5,4) if bits indexes are (7,0). The code I wrote probably confused things because the constants needed to be 0x30, 0x20, and 0x10 (i.e. I made the same mixup when writing the constants that you likely did when analyzing the values).

P.S. -> yes I was suggesting a variant to remove the bias in the output. This probably doesn't matter much because the remainder of the algorithm will "whiten" this bias anyway. The primary reason to reject my change is that it might be easier to modify an existing ASIC. I think it would be the same - with either change a hardware designer might consider the equivalent of cmovs with constants instead of arithmetic operations. Although this getting a bit far out of my area of expertise (specifically the difficulty/expense at designing the types of circuits I am referencing).

P.P.S. -> No.

## psychocrypt | 2018-02-15T19:29:53+00:00
note: `(tmp2<<1)|tmp1` is equal than `(tmp>>4)&3´

## psychocrypt | 2018-02-15T19:33:48+00:00
`((const uint8_t*)p)[11]` is `tmp`

## vtnerd | 2018-02-15T19:39:57+00:00
I haven't seen a good argument against using a bit from the keccak output for this purpose. @moneromooo-monero  did say this:

> Since you can't predict input p contents, you can select your nonces to control the result.

which was hopefully a typo.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-15T20:00:42+00:00
Its worth mentioning that this is an unrolled loop - one iteration in the spec was put twice in the loop, then the loop was run 2^18 times instead of 2^19. So this change creates two tweaks - one is run after an odd iteration and one is run after an even iteration. I do not see anything inherently wrong about this, but I wonder if putting the tweak in the middle of the iteration might be more effective at stopping an ASIC. If someone developed a circuit for one iteration, depending on the hardware design, someone could still use that circuit but then run each tweak after each iteration. It would depend on the memory access between various components. Placing it in the middle of the iteration would make a circuit of one iteration of AES ops _potentially_ non-functional.

## vtnerd | 2018-02-17T21:24:22+00:00
I retract this comment. It is in the middle of the loop. The code here wasn't written with the most clarity (`ITER / 2` and `/* Iteration 1 */` and `/* Iteration 2 */`), etc. Don't know why `ITER` is set to twice the actual iteration amount specified in the cryptonight specs. Either way, `VARIANT1_1` is in the middle of a pipeline.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2018-02-12T14:48:47+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-03-06T06:41:23+00:00
