---
title: 'README: add disclaimer about 3rd party packages'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/3852
author: jtgrassie
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-05-24T11:05:36+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-11-01T03:33:28+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-06-19T17:55:36+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-06-19T17:55:36+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Accidentally closed #3791 

Demoted the 3rd party maintained package installs to after compiling
from repository source and removed the broken Homebrew package
instructions.

# Discussion History
## anonimal | 2018-05-24T18:27:28+00:00
>These packages are not part of this repository or maintained by this project's contributors, and as such, do not go through the same review process to ensure their trustworthiness and security

Though the package is obviously not a part of this repository, the remainder is not true for `Stable release: [monero](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/monero)`. Perhaps a better wording is needed.

## jtgrassie | 2018-05-24T18:50:17+00:00
Absolutely agreed. My original PR (which accidentally got deleted) called this out. I'm open to suggestions. Some packages just use the binaries, some pull the source code and build, some pull the source code, patch it and build. In all cases, the end-user is needing to trust the package maintainer. My favored approach is to remove all reference to the packages TBH, because, even if we vet the current packages, they can change at any time without us knowing.

## anonimal | 2018-05-24T20:46:49+00:00
How about a something simple like **"DISCLAIMER: The Monero Project Core Team does not maintain nor endorse any of the following packages. Use them at your own risk."**

# Action History
- Created by: jtgrassie | 2018-05-24T11:05:36+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-06-19T17:55:36+00:00
