---
title: 'simplewallet: Simplify LOCK_IDLE_SCOPE macro'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4249
author: rbrunner7
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-08-12T13:24:23+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-08-23T02:07:40+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-08-23T02:07:40+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-08-23T02:07:40+00:00'
---

# Original Description
After I thoroughly studied C++/Boost thread sync support and its use in `simplewallet` I noticed that the `LOCK_IDLE_SCOPE` macro does not contain any outright bug, but is nevertheless needlessly complex and does things that have no effect, and I propose to simplify it from 10 lines of code down to 3.

Two threads within `simplewallet` must be in sync when accessing / changing the `wallet2` object: The main thread and the idle thread that does autorefresh. Sync is done through locks on the `m_idle_mutex` mutex: The thread that manages to put a lock on that mutex can be sure to have exclusive access to the wallet until the lock is lifted.

The main thread uses the `LOCK_IDLE_SCOPE` macro to lock and relies on the destructor of the `boost::unique_lock` object at the end of the method in question to unlock.

---------

Locks on that mutex alone are sufficient already to sync the access of the two threads to the `wallet2` resource. It's unnecessary, as was done until now, to temporarily set the `m_auto_refresh_enabled` option to `false` as a second, additional measure: The idle thread can't do anything anyway if it does not currently hold a lock on the mutex.

**EDIT**: Turned out to be only half the truth. The mutex alone is alright to sync access to the wallet, but if you want to reliably interrupt any auto-refresh that happens to run at the time you want to lock, fiddling with `m_auto_refresh_enabled` is indeed needed in addition.

----------

It makes sense to call `m_idle_cond.notify_one` within `LOCK_IDLE_SCOPE`: You want to stop the up-to-90-seconds wait of the idle thread between auto refreshes and make it refresh right away after the wallet state changed. But there is no need to put a lock on the mutex and use a loop for doing so.

I am aware that syncing threads the wrong way can lead to subtle and rarely occuring bugs because of the dependence on timing, so I tested carefully. I made the refresh thread doing a refresh 3 times every second instead of once every 90 seconds attempting to provoke a sync breakdown, without success.

--------

The `wallet` class that the GUI wallet uses to access its `wallet2` object also works with mutexes, but such a complicated logic like until now in `LOCK_IDLE_SCOPE` is nowhere in sight.

**EDIT**: After having gone through this all here I have the suspicion that the absence of "complicated" logic in the `wallet` class is not an argument pro simplicity, but a sign that not all is well yet there concerning sync.

-------

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2018-08-12T16:53:21+00:00
What prevents the background refresh to start between stop and the lock ?

## rbrunner7 | 2018-08-12T17:48:44+00:00
Nothing. Nothing bad would happen, though, as far as I can see; just one more autorefresh would squeeze in and unstop the wallet. And no change compared with the status quo in this regard.

But, now that you point this out, I realize that of course it makes more sense to lock **first** and only then call `stop` because that is a state change of the wallet that probably should not happen if one does not currently "own" the wallet.

I will switch the order of those 2 lines.

Currently the only thing within `wallet2` that reacts to such a "stopping" is a running refresh loop that can't run anymore anyway in the current constellation of simplewallet's threads after one has a lock on the mutex (everybody only refreshes under the protection of a lock), so right now that call does nothing if done after locking.

But of course that could change in the future. Maybe in the future there will also be a need for a way for the wallet to signal back "I am really stopped now", because that may take some time after all.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-08-12T17:56:04+00:00
Ah, no, wrong, there is a change compared to the status quo: The refresh thread can squeeze in today as well, but it would release the wallet immediately again instead of doing a refresh because of `m_auto_refresh_enabled` set to false.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-08-12T18:25:52+00:00
Your change doesn't fix it.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-08-12T18:57:26+00:00
Sorry, I don't understand what you mean: Which problem is not fixed by the new order of the lines, with locking the mutex as the very first action? Or, more in general, what problem do you see there in the order "lock, stop, notify"?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-08-12T19:43:37+00:00
Your first step is to lock m_idle_mutex. If the background thread is currently refreshing, you'll just lock up until it's done.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-08-12T20:26:23+00:00
Hmm, yes, I see, your are correct.

If you think going further here is a waste of time, or if you just are busy, just tell, I am ready to withdraw my PR - it's not important. But if you bear with me, 2 more questions:

     m_idle_mutex.lock(); \
     while (m_auto_refresh_refreshing) \
       m_idle_cond.notify_one(); \
     m_idle_mutex.unlock(); \

In this construct as it is now, how does `notify_one` ever get executed? I really can't see that happening. `m_auto_refresh_refreshing` only goes true in the idle loop, but we here are only able to lock **after**  one idle loop is through and `m_auto_refresh_refreshing` already went back to false.

Second question: Instead of setting `m_auto_refresh_enabled` to false can't we just rely on the fact that the first thing the idle loop does after coming out of `wallet2.refresh` is **wait**, and wait a long time? So we have more than enough time after `stop` to lock the mutex (in the order of the original PR "stop, lock, notify") without any chance that the idle loop squeezes in - because it waits?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-08-12T20:54:09+00:00
First: you seem to be correct.
Second: that's gross, and the code might be changed to not wait last. In fact, in my share-rpc branch, it is the case.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-08-13T17:21:28+00:00
First: Glad I found out at least something to improve ...

Second: You are right. And in the meantime I also could argue convincingly why fiddling with `m_auto_refresh_enabled` is indeed needed if you want to cover *all* context switch scenarios.

I updated my PR yet again, taking out that function-less loop and deleting a comment that probably has outlived its usefulness now.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-08-13T18:23:10+00:00
That is wrong, it should not unlock then re-lock. That was for when the refresh thread was joined I guess. Remove the manual lock/unlock, the if, but move the unique_lock below to above the notify_one. Otherwise, you can have the notify called before the sleep in the refresh thread, and you'll end up sleeping for 90 seconds.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-08-13T18:38:45+00:00
Damn. Right. Updated.

I knew that programming with threads is tricky, but not yet from firsthand experience, and this here really is quite humbling ...

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-08-13T19:01:48+00:00
Now, since this is not looping and testing whether we're in refresh anymore, it's probably better to call notify_all, to guard against more than one other thread locking m_idle_mutex. That guarantees all threads will have a go.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-08-13T19:23:04+00:00
Certainly not a bad idea. Updated. It must near perfection now :)

# Action History
- Created by: rbrunner7 | 2018-08-12T13:24:23+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-08-23T02:07:40+00:00
