---
title: '[WIP] Initial version of MMS (Monero Messaging System)'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4134
author: rbrunner7
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-07-14T15:43:03+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-11-04T18:57:32+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2018-11-04T18:57:32+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This is the code of the MMS (Monero Messaging System) that I am currently working on to make Monero multisig easier.

It's clearly work in heavy progress, maybe 3/4 completed, 1/4 still to go. You probably won't have a chance getting this running already on your own to test it, mostly because of the fragility of the current code and missing documentation.

General background info about my MMS project is on Monero Taiga website [here](https://taiga.getmonero.org/project/rbrunner7-really-simple-multisig-transactions/wiki/monero-messaging-system).

I make this **WIP / DO NOT YET MERGE** PR so that:

* It's clear I am still on the way and making progress
* Interested people can see where I propose to put the MMS code in the Monero source code tree and see the structure of the code
* People can see my proposed naming
* People can get an overall impression of the code size of the MMS
* People can comment on my C++ / Monero code base beginner's programming style


# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2018-07-15T22:08:15+00:00
`const std::string&`

## vtnerd | 2018-07-15T22:53:20+00:00
This indicates strong coupling from `message_store` to `wallet2`, which shouldn't be necessary. `wallet2` should be sending everything in the function calls into this class. In other words, drop this callback + virtual method interface.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-15T23:21:10+00:00
What happens if there are multiple uses of the transport address here? Just returns the first one? Is that correct?

## vtnerd | 2018-07-15T23:22:12+00:00
How many messages is this expecting? Should this be sorted by `::id` and then binary searched via `std::lower_bound`? The one downside is the moving of the struct during the initial `insert` call, but if there are lots of searching going on, its best to identify one search field, and then sort once by that field and binary search against it.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-15T23:27:06+00:00
The send/add should be done in one call. It prevents the need to lookup a message that should already known.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-15T23:38:35+00:00
This is a bridge into the BitMessage RPC system. I think some functions that knew how to forward into a BitMessage RPC directly would suffice. Doesn't even need virtual methods right now (what other system is going to be supported?). I think the idea was that plugins could be written in different languages. However, why even bother if its just going to be this forwarding bridge? It seems like it would take more time writing a compatible bridge than to just add the hooks directly into C++ for forwarding into the different network. Bringing the `message_store` concept to production ready will be plenty of work. OR focus on this RPC abstraction instead - but work closely with the Kovri team. The risk is that this is probably a system designed primarily (and perhaps solely) with BitMessage in mind.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-16T18:00:43+00:00
Use `enum class mesage_type : uint8_t {}` in these sections. C++11 enums are scoped - so prefixing `message_type_` for each value is unnecessary. They are also not implicitly convertible from one type, and allow for selection of the underlying storage type.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-16T18:03:55+00:00
Reorder these for better padding results. The `uint32_t` should be one-after-the-other for instance. Same thing for a few of these structs in here, the bool in `coliation_member` is the most obvious - that struct has a 7-byte pad then `index` then a 4-byte pad. Only one 7 byte pad is necessary.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-16T18:06:02+00:00
This seems like something where LMDB should be used. The problem is the current lack of encryption, but you can check with @hyc about the status with that. You can also store encrypted blobs as values and keep sansitized keys (i.e. the key could be an integer for the message, etc., and perhaps encryption isn't useful). This would leak more information than the current scheme, but will be more resilient to sudden system crashes.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-16T18:07:44+00:00
Why are there multiple versions already? Nothing has been released yet? Or is this being used for some other purpose?

## vtnerd | 2018-07-16T18:45:07+00:00
These first three are identical, and should be:
```c++
case key_set:
case finalizing_key_set:
case multisig_sync_data:
   .... code ....
  break;
```

## vtnerd | 2018-07-16T18:45:53+00:00
`case fully_signed_tx` could go here, with `partially_signed_tx` falling into the identical code.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-16T18:47:43+00:00
Nitpick but <- those `*`. This is a style not yet seen in this codebase.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-16T18:50:05+00:00
This has the downside of losing all data if the system halts while trying to write this file. Arguably this information isn't extremely critical - it can be resent in many cases - but it looks like we are generally moving towards LMDB for this kind of stuff.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-17T16:24:42+00:00
This is : 
```c++
bool r =
    load_ ... &&
    sign_multisig_tx ...;
```

Which is a little quicker to read.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-17T16:26:15+00:00
Unnecessary, just check `ciphertext.empty()` below. i.e.
```c++
if (r)
    ciphertext = m_wallet->save_multisig_tx(exported_txs);

if (!ciphertext.empty())
{
   ... stuff...
} else {
  ... error message
}
```

## vtnerd | 2018-07-17T16:31:51+00:00
I think this is matched by the `}` on line 1199. But it kind of hard to read with 2-space identations and a long if bracket. I think inverting the check - `if (!by_mms) { ...stuff ... return true; }` will make it more readable - I don't need an editor to bounce me to the other bracket.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-17T16:35:57+00:00
Why the `eof()` check here?

## vtnerd | 2018-07-17T16:50:44+00:00
Just use `atoi`. The string is exactly one byte, so it cannot overflow an `int` on any platform. Also line 1477 will not work with some locales/character encodings.

## vtnerd | 2018-07-17T16:51:41+00:00
Is there some way to sort these, in case the queue gets large?

## vtnerd | 2018-07-17T16:52:40+00:00
some more string conversions that can be done with other utilities.

## naughtyfox | 2018-07-18T10:30:25+00:00
I wouldn't place low-level parsing code in high-level business logic function

## naughtyfox | 2018-07-18T10:32:34+00:00
It would be simpler to read and understand it if you placed negative scenario with exit before

## rbrunner7 | 2018-07-20T13:55:56+00:00
Convinced. I will switch to enum classes.

Surprisingly, as far as I could see, enum classes are not yet used anywhere in the Monero daemon codebase.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-07-20T13:58:10+00:00
You spotted that with very sharp eyes :)

That's for me during development, so that I do not loose my prepared wallets with filled message stores every time I add some member to those classes. I will reset all versions to 0 before making the "real" PR.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-07-20T14:13:45+00:00
You are of course correct. That call is nonsense, as transport addresses are not unique, on the contrary, the system must be able to use a single transport address for any number of Monero addresses, e.g. for a public remote messaging daemon where you certainly don't want to use a separate transport address for each client that walks along, and for message transport systems where it's difficult or expensive to configure new addresses, unlike Bitmessage.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-07-20T14:56:46+00:00
Corrected.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-07-20T15:02:26+00:00
Still making up my mind regarding `wallet2` dependency in general. See also my long-ish separate post about that subject below.

Note that it's not `wallet2` calling into `message_store`, but the wallets do, in my case the CLI wallet. So if the message store cannot get info from the wallet directly and things have to happen over method parameters, simplewallet has to fetch it first from the wallet in order to feed it to the message store methods, which I found really tedious.


## rbrunner7 | 2018-07-20T15:07:30+00:00
Good question that I pondered myself also. IMO hard to say how many messages to expect in an average multisig wallet. Maybe a good idea to not optimize prematurely and see how that develops. I think internal binary search for message ids could be added at any time without breaking anything.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-07-20T15:11:03+00:00
Well, "higher up" i.e. in simplewallet both cases are supported: Not immediately sending a message that was generated, and on the other hand re-sending an existing message because e.g. it was not transported properly. For those use cases separate "add" and "send" methods are needed.

## naughtyfox | 2018-07-23T10:00:45+00:00
I think there is no need to make it class member because it's used only in one function

## naughtyfox | 2018-07-23T10:02:24+00:00
I think it's better to make it `time_t` type if possible

## naughtyfox | 2018-07-23T10:17:20+00:00
I would rather use `std::find`

## naughtyfox | 2018-07-23T10:20:47+00:00
I would use `std::find` or `std::find_if` here. Don't think it's needed to be reimplemented

## naughtyfox | 2018-07-23T10:27:03+00:00
What about to not binding function interfaces to file system? It would give a lot of flexibility and would let cover much more code with unit tests. The same is true for `wallet2` class...
For example, if we passed streams instead of file names we'd cover almost all of monero code with tests:
```
void message_store::write_to_file(const std::string& filename) {
  std::ostream file = . . .; // make ostream
  write_to_file(file);
}

void message_store::write(std::ostream& file) {
. . . 
}
```

## naughtyfox | 2018-07-23T10:43:47+00:00
I don't think it's good idea to make such intrusive dependency into `wallet2` module

## rbrunner7 | 2018-07-23T11:34:45+00:00
Can you please elaborate on that? Is this a narrow and specific comment about this particular method and about changing its signature, or a quite general comment about the relationship between a `message_store` and a `wallet2` object?

It has been quite difficult to get high-level feedback about this, but this is at the heart of my proposal: I propose to be the MMS to be a new *integral* and *standard* part of Monero and its wallets. After the introduction of the MMS, a Monero wallet has a key file, a wallet file, and optionally a message store file, and at least as I see it, it's allowed to be "open" about that, no need to hide something.


## naughtyfox | 2018-07-23T12:10:53+00:00
> Is this a narrow and specific comment about this particular method and about changing its signature, or a quite general comment about the relationship between a message_store and a wallet2 object?

I think it's better to save some MMS related data by MMS module itself and make `wallet2` know nothing about it. I read you had some issues with making the module as much independent from `wallet2` as possible (that's why you introduced new interface). I think it's worth to think about making some methods in `wallet2` to export data needed for MMS module instead of inheriting from the interface (because it's not `kind-of` relation). I haven't had a chance to dive in the architecture at the moment. Probably later I'll propose some more valuable suggestions.

## naughtyfox | 2018-07-23T12:15:49+00:00
>  I propose to be the MMS to be a new integral and standard part of Monero and its wallets.

It may be standard part of monero, but it's better to keep it separate from `wallet2` class because, in my opinion, `wallet2` has a lot of responsibilities already and it's not easy to test and keep free of bugs.

## rbrunner7 | 2018-07-23T20:17:20+00:00
The architecture currently is like that:

The functionality added to `wallet2` is quite simple. The most important new job of a `wallet2` object is managing a new third file beside the key file and the wallet file: the message store file. A `wallet2` now "owns" a message store (file).

Which is, IMHO, useful: Because `wallet2` manages the file all the programs that may use the MMS don't have to, no danger that the message store file "gets lost" or does not get renamed when a wallet is renamed etc.

Why should it have advantages if all wallet programs using `wallet2` (I know about 5 such programs) have to babysit a message store beside it themselves when `wallet2` could easily do that job once and for all its clients?

Most of the new functionality is 1) in the `message_store` class and 2) in any wallet program like in my case the CLI wallet that want to support the MMS.

If you don't use the MMS **no** message store file will be created - you won't notice anything, `wallet2` will work as it ever has, with two files. Only by initializing the MMS a message store file is created. Technically, if you delete the file, nothing bad happens, the MMS is just not active anymore for that wallet.



# Action History
- Created by: rbrunner7 | 2018-07-14T15:43:03+00:00
- Closed at: 2018-11-04T18:57:32+00:00
