---
title: 'easylogging++: faster access to logging'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4840
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-11-12T19:46:03+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-12-12T09:54:24+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-12-12T09:54:24+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-12-12T09:54:24+00:00'
---

# Original Description
If someone has a better patch, feel free.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2018-11-13T03:38:59+00:00
This now leaks a global `base::Storage` object (`elStorage`). This exists for the lifetime of the system anyway - intentional?

## vtnerd | 2018-11-13T03:47:41+00:00
The construction of this variable is no longer thread-safe. Do all the apps call a log function before starting threads? Is that an acceptable risk? Accessing the thread-safe atomic (the implicit static init bool) should be fairly quick since its read-only after construction (thus no cache destruction).

The logger has many other slow-downs worth looking at, the number of cycles here should be low compared to those other issues.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-13T08:41:34+00:00
Yes

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-13T08:44:12+00:00
At least one log is called rom a static object ctor (crypto::null_skey -> mlock -> get_page_size), so efore starting threads.
"allowed" is still showing a bit on the profile, I suspect just the locking, but that's still acceptable now. getresetELPP was just > 2%, whch seemed outrageous.


## vtnerd | 2018-11-15T04:49:34+00:00
Relying on a static object to be constructed is problematic - the process could be linked without the crypto lib. Additionally, I hope to provide a patch that removes that log before main because it is impossible to disable logging to console (useful for the light wallet server admin process which can be used by python apps or bash scripts etc).

## vtnerd | 2018-11-15T04:54:07+00:00
BTW - this _probably_ won't cause a problem, but I'm not sure how helpful the 2% in the profile is in this case - there are log statements everywhere so this function is going to get skewed due to all of those calls. How much on aggregate do some of these functions with log statements perform now? It should be a fairly small increase overall.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-15T12:01:38+00:00
I don't understand what you're asking.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-15T12:27:19+00:00
If you're asking "is it slow because it's called a lot", then yes.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-12T19:46:03+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-12-12T09:54:24+00:00
