---
title: 'device/trezor: trezor improvements'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4839
author: ph4r05
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-11-12T10:44:17+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-04-03T19:22:00+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-12-12T09:53:54+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-12-12T09:53:54+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Features implemented:

- Minor Trezor fixes:
   - Message generation message improved
   - define macro name fix
   - webusb transport session open counter fix

- Correct device initialization, including simple state management with passphrase-enabled devices
  - Resetting device to known state before each action
  - Loading features of the device (firmware version, properties)

- Mitigation for https://github.com/trezor/trezor-core/pull/426
  - If the Trezor firmware is <= 2.0.9 short payment ID transactions are blocked

- Device passphrase entry on host. Adds device callbacks which are propagated to `i_wallet_callbacks`.
  - Simple device callback object added. Device can request passphrase/PIN entry via the callback or notify user some action is required
  - Callback is routed to `wallet2`, which routes the callback to i_wallet_callback so CLI or GUI wallets can support passphrase entry for HW tokens

- Enables to use multiple independent wallets with the same HW token using [SLIP-10] derivation paths. 
  - HW token stores one master seed from which are derived independent crypto wallets. 
  - The mechanism is similar to the [BIP-32] but generalized so Ed25519 can be used. 
  - Hardened-only paths are supported as Ed25519 does not support public derivation.
  - The default derivation path is 44'/128'/0'. When entered the derivation path is 44'/128'/PATH.
  - CLI Usage: `--hw-device-derivation-path 0'/0'`.
  - Programmatic usage: `wallet->device_derivation_path("0'/0'")`;

- key image sync on the first refresh if money were received. Avoids false positive double spending errors.   
  - When doing the first refresh on HW-token based wallet KI sync is required if money were received. Received money may indicate wallet was already used before the restore I.e., some transaction could have been already sent from the wallet. The spent UTXO would not be detected as spent which could lead to double spending errors on submitting a new transaction.

  - If the wallet is HW-token based with the cold signing protocol and the first refresh detected received money the user is asked to perform the key image sync.

- Python2 dependencies are bundled to the repository, no thirdparty code needed.

More information in commit messages.

[SLIP-10]: https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0010.md
[BIP-32]: https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0032.mediawiki

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-27T12:05:52+00:00
For the record, all these semicolons are superfluous. They're not harming anything though.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-27T12:06:44+00:00
What is a code in this context ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-27T12:12:49+00:00
Throw if range change clamps ? Not sure if that's a matter for whatever this is. Also maybe you want to check if the number you read already has 0x800... set.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-27T12:16:41+00:00
passphrase (aren't I a pedant...)

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-27T12:18:15+00:00
which ouput(s), not transactions

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-27T12:20:17+00:00
That should be shown only if the wallet can do that, or people will be confused since most will have a version that does nothing.
Besides, this doesn't depend on key images, does it ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-27T12:22:47+00:00
Probably should init to 0 or other sane value for older versions loaded.

## ph4r05 | 2018-11-27T13:17:18+00:00
I was struggling with the naming here, its BIP-32 wallet derivation path, `--hw-device-wallet-code 0'/0'`. I wanted to avoid using path in the simplewallet so people don't misinterpret it as file system path. 

Maybe `wallet_dpath` as "derivation path" would be better?
`--hw-device-wallet-dpath 0'/0'`  ?

## ph4r05 | 2018-11-27T13:19:38+00:00
I've had throw there but `-Werror` compilation failed on 32bit systems as the condition was always false 😓 

Regarding checking ` | 0x8000` - that's intended, I am forcing the "hardened derivation path" as [SLIP-10] does not support public derivation (with high bit set) for Ed25519.

[SLIP-10]: https://github.com/satoshilabs/slips/blob/master/slip-0010.md

## ph4r05 | 2018-11-27T13:21:33+00:00
I will probably remove this addition completely. 
From the testing: If key image sync is not performed on an already used wallet after device restore this error is thrown. It probably deserves a better check 

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-27T13:49:36+00:00
I don't know, I'm not familiar with this, your pick will be better than mine :)

## ph4r05 | 2018-11-29T03:43:31+00:00
Initialized to 0 👍 

# Action History
- Created by: ph4r05 | 2018-11-12T10:44:17+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-12-12T09:53:54+00:00
