---
title: 'chore(deps): update dependency ffigen to v14'
source_url: https://github.com/MrCyjaneK/monero_c/pull/49
author: renovate[bot]
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2024-09-06T09:57:42+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-09-08T15:53:00+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-09-08T15:52:24+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-09-08T15:52:24+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This PR contains the following updates:

| Package | Type | Update | Change |
|---|---|---|---|
| [ffigen](https://redirect.github.com/dart-lang/native) ([source](https://redirect.github.com/dart-lang/native/tree/HEAD/pkgs/ffigen)) | dev_dependencies | major | `^13.0.0` -> `^14.0.0` |

---

### Release Notes

<details>
<summary>dart-lang/native (ffigen)</summary>

### [`v14.0.0`](https://redirect.github.com/dart-lang/native/blob/HEAD/pkgs/ffigen/CHANGELOG.md#1400)

-   Create a public facing API for ffigen that can be invoked as a library:
    `void generate(Config config)`. Make `Config` an implementatble interface,
    rather than needing to be parsed from yaml.
-   Add a `external-versions` config option. Setting the minimum target
    version will omit APIs from the generated bindings if they were deprecated
    before this version.
-   Global variables using ObjC types (interfaces or blocks) will now use the
    correct Dart wrapper types, instead of the raw C-style pointers.
-   Rename `assetId` under *ffi-native* to `asset-id` to follow dash-case.
-   **Breaking change**: ObjC blocks are now passed through all ObjC APIs as
    `ObjCBlock<Ret Function(Args...)>`, instead of the codegenned
    `ObjCBlock_...` wrapper. The wrapper is now a non-constructible set of util
    methods for constructing `ObjCBlock`.
-   **Breaking change**: Generated ObjC code has been migrated to ARC (Automatic
    Reference Counting), and must now be compiled with ARC enabled. For example,
    if you had a line like `s.requires_arc = []` in your podspec, this should
    either be removed, or you should add the ffigen generated ObjC code to the
    list. If you're compiling directly with clang, add the `-fobjc-arc` flag.
-   **Breaking change**: Structs with enum members now generate their members
    as Dart enum values as well. For example, with an enum `MyEnum` and a struct
    with a member `MyEnum enumMember`, two members are generated: `enumMemberAsInt`
    which contains the original integer value, and `enumMember`, which is of type
    `MyEnum`. If you configure the enum to be generated as Dart integers, this
    new behavior will not apply, and the struct member will be an integer as well.
-   **Breaking change**: Enums generated as integers will now generate `sealed`
    classes as opposed to `abstract` classes.
-   Fix some bugs in the way ObjC method families and ownership annotations were
    being handl[https://github.com/dart-lang/native/issues/1446](https://redirect.github.com/dart-lang/native/issues/1446)1446
-   Apply the existing `member-rename` option to ObjC interface and protocol
    methods and properties.
-   Add a `member-filter` option that filters ObjC interface and protocol methods
    and properties.

</details>

---

### Configuration

📅 **Schedule**: Branch creation - At any time (no schedule defined), Automerge - At any time (no schedule defined).

🚦 **Automerge**: Disabled by config. Please merge this manually once you are satisfied.

♻ **Rebasing**: Whenever PR becomes conflicted, or you tick the rebase/retry checkbox.

🔕 **Ignore**: Close this PR and you won't be reminded about this update again.

---

 - [ ] <!-- rebase-check -->If you want to rebase/retry this PR, check this box

---

This PR was generated by [Mend Renovate](https://mend.io/renovate/). View the [repository job log](https://developer.mend.io/github/MrCyjaneK/monero_c).
<!--renovate-debug:eyJjcmVhdGVkSW5WZXIiOiIzOC41OS4yIiwidXBkYXRlZEluVmVyIjoiMzguNTkuMiIsInRhcmdldEJyYW5jaCI6Im1hc3RlciIsImxhYmVscyI6W119-->


# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: renovate[bot] | 2024-09-06T09:57:42+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-09-08T15:52:24+00:00
