---
title: 'Added features to epee::span<T> :'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4209
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-08-02T04:15:56+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-09-29T01:54:13+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-09-21T18:30:47+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-09-21T18:30:47+00:00'
---

# Original Description
  - Support for classes
  - Added `remove_prefix` function
  - Added `to_mut_span` and `as_mut_byte_span`

@moneromooo-monero 

The light-wallet-server also these functions.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2018-08-02T09:33:41+00:00
What is that second anonymous parameter for ? It does not seem used. Is it ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-08-02T09:34:21+00:00
Should this not error out if it cannot remove the amount required ?

## vtnerd | 2018-08-03T03:05:50+00:00
As an exception or bool? A majority of the time, clamping to the end without exception makes sense. There might be some infinite loop bug aborted by an exception here. Usually the bug is `remove_prefix(0)` though.

## vtnerd | 2018-08-03T03:24:56+00:00
The second template parameter is anonymous and unused. If `enable_if` is false, then the expression doesn't compute a valid type and the constructor is removed from the potential call set. If the `enable_if` is true, `::type` is `void` making the second template argument `void`. The general technique is known as SFINAE. In this particular case, a failed `enable_if` will result in a compiler error for no valid constructor call.

This logic isn't strictly needed, but was added to catch a [subtle bug with C++ classes and pointers](https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/cplusplus/CTR56-CPP.+Do+not+use+pointer+arithmetic+on+polymorphic+objects). I just spotted [`has_virtual_destructor`](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/types/has_virtual_destructor), and will add this check to the patch - preventing "polymorphic" classes. This check will be less necessary after that static check, but still helpful.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-08-03T10:01:53+00:00
Any method really. It just seems like a bug at first glance since it doesn't seem obvious unless you read the code that it can do less than asked. things like read that can do short reads return the number of bytes read, for instance.

## vtnerd | 2018-08-03T17:45:10+00:00
I like the number of bytes shifted approach actually, its fairly close to many other interfaces. Will make this change shortly.

## vtnerd | 2018-08-07T02:51:47+00:00
And I just spotted that the `has_virtual_destructor` trait has a constraint that isn't workable (complete type). Crud, wont have that addition.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-09-16T10:34:01+00:00
You might have forgot about this.

## vtnerd | 2018-09-19T03:14:02+00:00
I completed this at the time but forgot to push out the change. Crud. Just forced push the change.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2018-08-02T04:15:56+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-09-21T18:30:47+00:00
