---
title: cryptonote tweak v2.2
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4404
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-09-19T20:15:55+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-10-12T06:32:55+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-09-22T18:32:53+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-09-22T18:32:53+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This is a proposed tweak to the cryptonote algorithm for the next release. This was designed to "augment" CNv2, and reduce the chances of pre-built boards for those changes. Advantages:
* Works with or without CNv2 changes by @SChernykh .
* Any manufactured boards that implement one pass of the primary loop in the original, v1,  or CNv2 algorithm is unlikely to work.
* Any manufactured boards that have an implementation of the 8-byte multiply then 8-byte add routine (which could be leveraged in in v0, v1, or v2) is unlikely to work.
* XORing was used because it is _not_ distributive or associative over addition or multiplication. So XOR should require an order for the operations around the multiply/add sections of the original and CNv2 design.

Negatives:
* Any existing _design_ for the original, v1, or CNv2 is probably easy to update.
* Any highly custom RISC/microcoded chip is unlikely to have much additional penalty (i.e. if some chips were designed for use with CNv2 instructions, this doesn't change performance much).

Feedback from the community is strongly encouraged. Possible additional techniques could involve mixing information from earlier stages of the pipeline or CNv2 stages.

# Discussion History
## SChernykh | 2018-09-20T10:37:54+00:00
Adding to what was said in comments: VARIANT2_2_1 seems to be excessive and useless here. It just XORs data into scratchpad, the result of this XOR is not used until we hit the same 64-byte line on some next iteration. It will be ~100 iterations later, at best, given 2 MB scratchpad size. The delay between store and use allows it to be done fully in background on ASIC while writing back to memory and in parallel with all other calculations. Only VARIANT2_2_2 does the job of breaking fused hardware implementation of "8-byte multiply then 8-byte add".

## SChernykh | 2018-09-20T10:41:20+00:00
The idea to use XOR to break fused MUL+ADD implementation is great, but do we need to use scratchpad for that? We have plenty of data readily available in registers here - result from previous AES, division_result, sqrt_result etc. It will be much smaller hit for CPU if we don't do XOR with memory location. XOR will still break fused MUL+ADD as long as it's done with some non-constant value.

## SChernykh | 2018-09-20T10:42:53+00:00
I remember there were two implementations for ARM, you updated only one of them.

## SChernykh | 2018-09-20T10:52:52+00:00
Although, division and sqrt results are not yet available here because of high calculation latency. But everything else is available and can be used for XOR.

## SChernykh | 2018-09-20T11:10:57+00:00
The simple `hi ^= something1` and `lo ^= something2` will be enough to break fused MUL+ADD. Let's keep this tweak simple, current version seems to be over complicated without any visible benefit to outweigh this complexity.

## vtnerd | 2018-09-20T16:16:31+00:00
> The idea to use XOR to break fused MUL+ADD implementation is great, but do we need to use scratchpad for that? We have plenty of data readily available in registers here - result from previous AES, division_result, sqrt_result etc. It will be much smaller hit for CPU if we don't do XOR with memory location. XOR will still break fused MUL+ADD as long as it's done with some non-constant value.

All of things mentioned in this list should be easier to "tweak" to anyone "sitting" on a design for CNv2 since they are already required for the computation of the hi/lo value. I will inspect a bit further though.

> The simple `hi ^= something1` and `lo ^= something2` will be enough to break fused MUL+ADD. Let's keep this tweak simple, current version seems to be over complicated without any visible benefit to outweigh this complexity.

This tweak **is very simple**. However, it is reducing some computations that can be done in parallel. I don't see how this type of parallelism is a magic feat that only a full CPU/GPU can do ... ?

## SChernykh | 2018-09-20T16:28:01+00:00
>  I don't see how this type of parallelism is a magic feat that only a full CPU/GPU can do ... ?

You understand it the wrong way. This type of parallelism (with shuffles) is **the only** one CPU/GPU can do, ASIC are capable of much more. So this is the only way how CPU/GPU can be competitive.

P.S. Do you know how original Cryptonight ASICs achieved such high hashrates? They reduced the critical path to 20-27 bits needed to calculate indices in the scratchpad and did everything else in parallel in the background. Major parts of AES and MUL weren't needed to progress the main loop, they could be done with lag because they were only needed when the same 16-byte chunk was hit again. No CPU/GPU can do that.

## vtnerd | 2018-09-20T18:27:50+00:00
>> I don't see how this type of parallelism is a magic feat that only a full CPU/GPU can do ... ?
>
> You understand it the wrong way. This type of parallelism (with shuffles) is the only one CPU/GPU can do, ASIC are capable of much more. So this is the only way how CPU/GPU can be competitive.

This seems extremely close to deflecting from my argument (because an ASIC can still outperform either way). I _think_ what you are getting is that the CPU already has more available fetch capabilities from L3/memory (and so do many GPUs), and so this is increasing the relative cost of production of an ASIC whereas its fixed for CPU/GPU. Something like that?

> P.S. Do you know how original Cryptonight ASICs achieved such high hashrates? They reduced the critical path to 20-27 bits needed to calculate indices in the scratchpad and did everything else in parallel in the background. Major parts of AES and MUL weren't needed to progress the main loop, they could be done with lag because they were only needed when the same 16-byte chunk was hit again. No CPU/GPU can do that.

I don't see how this was possible. Selecting an address depends on AES or mul/add results from the immediate prior step. Unless there is some shortcut through the AES stage or something ... ?

The ASIC could delay/queue writes, but you seem to be describing something different.

## SChernykh | 2018-09-20T18:30:50+00:00
>I think what you are getting is that the CPU already has more available fetch capabilities from L3/memory (and so do many GPUs), and so this is increasing the relative cost of production of an ASIC whereas its fixed for CPU/GPU. Something like that?

Yes, pretty close. Please comment on my proposed change to VARIANT2_2 (scroll down the page to see my last comments).

## SChernykh | 2018-09-20T18:31:49+00:00
> I don't see how this was possible

Me neither, I got "enlightened" by FPGA developers - they use this technique in their 22 KH/s CNv1 (current Monero PoW) bitstream for FPGA.

## vtnerd | 2018-09-20T19:22:26+00:00
> Me neither, I got "enlightened" by FPGA developers - they use this technique in their 22 KH/s CNv1 (current Monero PoW) bitstream for FPGA.

No, I think you are full of shit. What did they do.

## SChernykh | 2018-09-20T19:26:19+00:00
I don't know, they didn't tell me the details. I'm not a FPGA developer, but they do have 22 KH/s bitstream for CNv1. Maybe it was a misinformation (as it already happened before). And please don't use swear words.

## SChernykh | 2018-09-20T21:52:39+00:00
"&& 0" is probably not needed here? A debug code remnant.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2018-09-19T20:15:55+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-09-22T18:32:53+00:00
