---
title: '[Do Not Merge] Adding "light wallet server" that is mymonero compatible'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4139
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-07-16T06:11:29+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-08-24T20:45:40+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2022-08-24T20:45:40+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
  Another [do not merge] :/ . This is in a solid "beta+" code - people should expect this to work reasonably well in its current state. Anybody testing this branch is encouraged to put bug reports or suggestions into this PR.

This patch is too large to be reviewed on its own. Instead pieces will be broken up so that various parts can be discussed on their own. Eventually the last chunk will be this PR, and the do not merge tag will be removed. This PR **will** receive force-pushes to keep the eventual log history somewhat pristine (and it will involve several smaller commits via other PRs anyway). A separate [repo/branch](https://github.com/mymonero/hostedwallet-server-staging/tree/feature/light_wallet_server) will be identical to what goes into mainline, except history will never be rewritten. Some additional unit tests + documentation will be written as the PRs are being opened. 

----------------------------

This provides a mymonero compatible server that uses LMDB and adds no additional dependencies to the project. For now - there is a server that scans txes in the background while an epee server provides the latest data in LMDB over the mymonero REST api. An optional, off by default, exchange rate retrieval from cryptocompare.com is also provided.

This also provides a separate admin utility. The utility can dump the DB state, change some limited account values, approve pending account creation/import requests, and manually add accounts - all while the server is running. The server will automatically detect changes via LMDB, and continue processing.

My biggest criticism - the ideal situation would be to have this in a separate repo, but I think its difficult until the internal parts of the system can be used effectively as a git submodule.

# Discussion History
## anonimal | 2018-07-16T06:20:14+00:00
>None of those libraries should be dependent on the hardware abstraction, it should only be dependent on them.

:+1: 

## Jasonhcwong | 2019-04-16T05:36:59+00:00
I tested this on my machine Ubuntu 18.04 on x64 platform, it actually sleep for 100 000 times longer than wanted.
With the following code to print real sleep time before the while loop:
`
const boost::chrono::milliseconds real_sleep_time = boost::chrono::milliseconds{sleep_time.count()};            MINFO("real_sleep_time(ms): " << real_sleep_time.count());
`
Suggest change it to :
`
std::this_thread::sleep_for(sleep_time);
`

## vtnerd | 2019-09-06T03:55:20+00:00
I missed this comment somehow. The bug is from the source being in nanoseconds not milliseconds, so its off by 1000. Will push out a fix soon. Glad to see someone testing/using.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2018-07-16T06:11:29+00:00
- Closed at: 2022-08-24T20:45:40+00:00
