---
title: 'epee: TLS v1.2+, restricted cipher list, fingerprint whitelisting'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4852
author: omartijn
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-11-15T08:09:30+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-03-05T14:21:42+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-03-05T14:21:42+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-03-05T14:21:42+00:00'
---

# Original Description
When it comes to TLS, TLS 1.3 is preferred, 1.2 is also accepted and anything older is explicitly turned off. A hardcoded list of ciphers is set, chosen for security and performance.

An option has also been added to whitelist certificates based on their fingerprint, instead of a file with the whole certificate.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-24T00:40:42+00:00
This ignores an odd size's last digit, parses one value for ":", also for ":::::". errno doesn't get set here for 
":::askjndkj", which gets me 0 a 0 0 0. strtol (you might want strtoul instead btw) does not set errno for short read, it just returns.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-24T00:42:12+00:00
Can you expand on the distinction between those calls (ie, foo{} vs foo({})) ?


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-24T00:47:42+00:00
Why not return false if it's not found ? The finds fall back to here AFAICT.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-24T00:49:42+00:00
Why is this removed ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-24T00:51:28+00:00
BN_free(bne);

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-24T00:54:47+00:00
I'm curious, why this rather htan use the existing conversion code ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-24T00:57:20+00:00
Fixes for previous stuff in the same PR should be squashed. We don't want to add known bugs :)
Same for the hex conversion earlier, if you keep it.

## omartijn | 2019-03-01T12:51:00+00:00
When I wrote this, it was because I hadn't seen the existing conversion code - seeing as it somehow wasn't included in this hex.h / hex.cpp

Later I found it is available in string_tools, but it doesn't support skipping spaces or colons. This is quite useful, as OpenSSL shows a certificates fingerprint separated with colons by default. I could of course also patch this function to ignore those characters.

## omartijn | 2019-03-01T12:56:28+00:00
Well, the original line basically invoked the constructor for ssl_context_t using the regular braces. This constructor only gets a single argument - because everything is joined using the curly braces. Looking at the available options, the only valid constructor here is one that takes an ssl_context_t, and since it is an unnamed temporary, it is rvalue qualified. So basically it creates the ssl_context_t and then moves it into another ssl_context_t. The first variant could this be written like this:

`ssl_context_t ssl_context(ssl_context_t{boost::asio::ssl::context(boost::asio::ssl::context::sslv23), std::move(allowed_certificates)});`

Now, the compiler is likely to eliminate this unnecessary extra object, so in practice this isn't a really big issue, but it doesn't add anything useful. Hence the second version, which just constructs the ssl_context_t.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-01T19:12:34+00:00
There is a boost::string_span which we use in a few places.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-01T19:13:39+00:00
It would be nice to keep the same space/tabs as the surrounding code so this does not look out of kilter :)

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-01T19:14:09+00:00
Bad indent again

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-01T19:16:49+00:00
That seems to be mean "if the number of ignored characters is odd, throw". Should it not be something like: if ((src.size()-count)%2) ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-01T19:25:37+00:00
I dropped those at vtnerd's request.

## omartijn | 2019-03-04T08:06:43+00:00
I couldn't find any mention of string_span in the repo, I did find a ton of mentions for string_ref though, so I could use that indeed. That raises the issue that boost::string_ref is more or less deprecated (see https://lists.boost.org/Archives/boost/2017/07/236903.php ). The string_ref author recomments switching to (boost|std)::string_view.

It's probably best to use boost::string_ref for now and maybe change all references to boost::string_ref to boost::string_view in another PR - it's a trivial change.

## omartijn | 2019-03-04T09:45:44+00:00
Hmm, that sucks. I quite agree with your argument that encrypting everything by default is the right idea because it stops passive monitoring - which increases the resources needed to snoop.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-04T10:20:54+00:00
Sorry, I did mean boost::string_ref indeed.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-04T10:21:51+00:00
Well, it can be added later on if needed. vtnerd also pointed to some light weight encryption in Bitcoin for P2P, where we don't have to support all kinds of RPC clients like curl etc.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-05T12:08:15+00:00
Did you check that this *really* works in al cases ? I remember some malarkey going on here, and this seems like a good place to have something leave a hole.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-05T12:09:13+00:00
I removed that at vtnerd's request, it did not quite do what I thought it did. Did you intend to being it back ?

# Action History
- Created by: omartijn | 2018-11-15T08:09:30+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-03-05T14:21:42+00:00
