---
title: 'wallet2: handle corner case in picking fake outputs'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4406
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-09-20T10:46:30+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-09-30T08:14:37+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2018-09-30T08:14:37+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
If we originally think we have enough outputs on the blockchain
to pick random fake outputs, we might end up with not enough of
them if enough are actually blackballed.

# Discussion History
## coneiric | 2018-09-26T18:30:52+00:00
Would it be helpful here to prompt the user if they want to continue w/ blackballed outputs? Or maybe at the end of output selection, display number of blackballed outputs used (if any)?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-09-26T19:49:48+00:00
If this happens, the output is only spendable if it uses blackballed outputs, so it'd be giving the user a choice of using or losing the monero.

## coneiric | 2018-09-26T23:49:15+00:00
Ok, I misunderstood then. Thought the user could stop, and retry again when there might be more non-blackballed outputs available.

I can think of scenarios where losing it might be better than using with reduced privacy, the opposite is obvious.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-09-27T08:02:50+00:00
Well, there might be other outpputs from the wallet to choose from, but as it stand retrying would most likely just select the same ones. There would need to be a patch keeping track (in the wallet) of the amount of blackballed out per amount and not picking those in the first place. That'd mean they're unpendable, but that could be made a wallet setting.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2018-09-20T10:46:30+00:00
- Closed at: 2018-09-30T08:14:37+00:00
