---
title: 'Helper: Implements IO timeout wrappers'
source_url: https://github.com/Cuprate/cuprate/pull/466
author: SyntheticBird45
assignees: []
labels:
- A-p2p
- A-dependency
- A-workspace
- A-helper
- C-fix
created_at: '2025-05-12T00:43:28+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-05-24T13:41:13+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
In `workspace`:
- Pulled `project-pin-lite` into workspace dependencies. This will later replace `project-pin`.

In `cuprate-p2p-core`:
- Propagated the `send_timeout` field to TcpInBoundStream

In `cuprate-helper`:
- Implemented `WriteTimeout` and `ReadTimeout` wrapper of `AsyncWrite` and `AsyncRead` respectively.
- Implemented `StreamTimeout` wrapper for `AsyncWrite + AsyncRead` types.
- Defined `ExtractDuration` trait for more flexibility on computing the timeout duration.
- Added 6 TCP tests (read/write/ok/err and stream/err)

<!--
PR titles should be:
<AREA>: <SHORT_DESCRIPTION>

For example:
books: fix typo
-->

<!--
If your pull request is long and/or has sections
that need clarifying, consider leaving a review on
your own PR with comments explaining the changes.
-->

### What & Why

Discussed during https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/1188
Is a mitigation against https://hackerone.com/reports/2912194
Complement https://github.com/Cuprate/cuprate/pull/423

Keep-alive or spamming connections are a denial of service attack vector. This PR implements `AsyncRead`/`AsyncWrite` timeout wrappers that will return `TimedOut` if an operation do not succeed after a timeout `Duration`. 

`ReadTimeout` and `WriteTimeout` are wrapping `AsyncRead` and `AsyncWrite` respectively.
`StreamTimeout` is  wrapping `AsyncRead + AsyncWrite`.

### Question

Usage for P2P:

This is primarily meant to be used within the RPC server, but can also be integrated into p2p transport definition for an upper bound security. To discuss in meeting.

# Discussion History
## SyntheticBird45 | 2025-05-13T15:22:47+00:00
`pin-project-lite` is an already included dependency. meanwhile no crates imports `pin-project`, this can be replaced in the future.

# Action History
- Created by: SyntheticBird45 | 2025-05-12T00:43:28+00:00
