---
title: Pruning
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4843
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-11-13T11:07:29+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-09-12T23:10:33+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-01-28T11:56:05+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-01-28T11:56:05+00:00'
---

# Original Description
[Not quite totally cleaned up yet, but close enough for a first review.]

The blockchain prunes seven eighths of prunable tx data.
This saves about two thirds of the blockchain size, while
keeping the node useful as a sync source for an eighth
of the blockchain.

No other data is currently pruned.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2018-11-13T17:19:15+00:00
This is likely only going to work with integers. Floats use a different manipulator, and custom `operator<<` overloads usually don't lookup `std::hex` state. I would suggest taking a `uint64_t` instead of a template and putting the implementation in the cpp. The few running a 32-bit process won't be slowed down terribly. If perf was a concern, an `unsigned` and `uint64_t` overload can forward to a templated version in the cpp.

The `hex.h` file might be a better place - including that file brings in less headers (quicker).

## vtnerd | 2018-11-13T17:27:16+00:00
This function can be marked `constexpr`.  The `static` keyword should be removed from both of them. In this context `static` forces hidden visibility which prevents the linker from merging the copies across compilation units.

## vtnerd | 2018-11-13T17:28:11+00:00
Remove?

## stoffu | 2018-11-14T04:13:33+00:00
Seems like the newly added formatter `%-4s` should come to the second last in the list.

## stoffu | 2018-12-18T05:26:27+00:00
Shouldn't the test be`log_stripes <= PRUNING_SEED_LOG_STRIPES_MASK`?

## stoffu | 2018-12-18T06:15:22+00:00
Shouldn't the same `log_stripes ? log_stripes : CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES` switch be used here?

## stoffu | 2018-12-18T06:34:28+00:00
I don't see how the execution can reach here. Shouldn't this be considered as a logic error?

## stoffu | 2018-12-18T06:50:24+00:00
Maybe wrap `1 << CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES` with parentheses just like others (though not needed grammar-wise)?

## stoffu | 2018-12-18T07:22:58+00:00
Maybe add another line like the other cases?
```c++
  ASSERT_EQ(tools::get_next_unpruned_block_height(TB+NS*SS,  10000000, seedNS), TB*2+(NS-1)*SS);
```


## stoffu | 2018-12-18T08:30:22+00:00
Bump the RPC version?

## stoffu | 2018-12-18T11:08:58+00:00
Spelling: rune -> prunes

## stoffu | 2018-12-18T12:05:12+00:00
Seems unused.

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T03:22:07+00:00
This case implies that the state of `txs_prunable_tip` and `txs_prunable` became out of sync for some reason, right? Then, shouldn't this log be promoted to warning or error to spot possible bugs more easily?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T03:39:54+00:00
Likewise, this case implies that the `txs_prunable` record was found to have been pruned somehow when executing this function with `prune_mode_prune` (i.e. the `pruning_seed` property was not found), which should not happen normally. If this is the case, shouldn't the log level be promoted to warning or error?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T05:09:38+00:00
Can't these be local variables?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T05:22:12+00:00
Helper functions for working with LMDB like these seem to appear multiple times in the codebase, so moving them into a single source might be a good candidate for refactoring in the future...

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T05:48:52+00:00
Perhaps the prefix `txs_` was forgotten for `pruned` and `prunable`?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T06:01:31+00:00
I wonder if these tables `txs_prunable, txs_prunable_hash, txs_prunable_tip` need to be opened with the `MDB_DUPSORT | MDB_DUPFIXED` flags, since the six lines above calling `mdb_set_dupsort` are done against tables opened with the flags.

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T06:16:42+00:00
Shouldn't the `txs_prunable` and `txs_prunable_tip` tables be opened with the `MDB_DUPSORT | MDB_DUPFIXED` flags?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T06:19:48+00:00
These four lines are repeated exactly.

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T06:40:22+00:00
The function seems to always return true. I think it makes sense to return false when the mode string was invalid or the numerical parsing failed.

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T06:43:22+00:00
Since the array size is fixed, `std::array<std::unique_ptr<Blockchain>, 2>` (or simply the primitive array type) seems more suitable.

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T06:53:58+00:00
Judging from `db_lmdb.cpp`, shouldn't the comparator for the `tx_indices` table be `compare_hash32`?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T07:00:21+00:00
Shouldn't these be opened with `MDB_DUPSORT | MDB_DUPFIXED`?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T07:27:25+00:00
Can a v1 tx be pruned?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T08:33:27+00:00
I guess when a user wants to immediately reduce the file size, the typical situation is that the remaining free disk space is small. However, the way `monero-blockchain-prune` works is that it creates a new pruned DB file, so the total disk space actually required to complete the task is larger with `monero-blockchain-prune` than with this daemon command. I think this behavior could be potentially surprising, and this message could use a bit of rephrasing.


## stoffu | 2018-12-19T08:39:39+00:00
It might be helpful to allow the user to customize the temporary DB file path in case the free disk space is very limited.

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T08:59:30+00:00
Shouldn't this also be accompanied by `get_pruned_tx` like the other instances?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T09:04:44+00:00
Why is the line `req.prune = false;` kept unchanged?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T09:06:37+00:00
Why is the line `req.prune = false;` kept unchanged?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T10:06:36+00:00
Is this also applicable for v1 tx?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T23:06:23+00:00
Shouldn't the condition exclude the equality, i.e. `stripe > (1ul << CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES)`?

## stoffu | 2018-12-19T23:06:46+00:00
Likewise

## stoffu | 2018-12-20T01:55:05+00:00
My understanding on how block queuing works is weak and probably I'm missing something, but isn't `want_height_from_block_queue` going to be always greater than `want_height_from_blockchain`? What's the situation where this isn't the case?

## stoffu | 2018-12-20T01:59:00+00:00
The case where the latter condition
```c++
tools::get_pruning_stripe(want_height_from_block_queue, blockchain_height, CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_LOG_STRIPES) == subsequent_pruning_stripe
```
holds seems to imply that `want_height` is set to `want_height_from_blockchain` which then implies `want_height_from_blockchain > want_height_from_block_queue` (i.e., if `want_height` was set to `want_height_from_block_queue`, the left hand side of the above expression would equal to `next_pruning_stripe` which always differs from `subsequent_pruning_stripe` by definition). What does this situation mean? Maybe leaving a comment in the code could be helpful.


## stoffu | 2018-12-20T04:07:21+00:00
The string often ends up like `[mooooooooooooo..oo.]`... so much mooo 😄 

## stoffu | 2018-12-20T07:01:10+00:00
Shouldn't this section be enabled only when the pruning mode is enabled (i.e. `m_core.get_blockchain_pruning_seed() > 0`)?

## stoffu | 2018-12-20T07:09:15+00:00
Can this actually occur when `current_blockchain_height < target_blockchain_height`?

## stoffu | 2018-12-20T07:21:06+00:00
`kick_connections` is now unused.

## stoffu | 2018-12-20T07:43:44+00:00
This function can be made `const`.

## stoffu | 2018-12-20T08:18:57+00:00
`seed` seems to actually represent a stripe. I think it needs to be fed to `tools::make_pruning_seed` in order to be printed like this.

Another question: shouldn't this section be activated only when `context.m_pruning_seed > 0`?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T11:55:02+00:00
No, it wouldn't make sense here, unless you see a case where it would.
Testing log_stripes is when you receive a seed and it might be 0 (ie, the peer is not striped). If you build a seed, having no stripe makes no sense.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T12:02:24+00:00
Yes, after reading the code, it is an unnecessary test. I'll make it into an assert.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T12:04:26+00:00
I always forget :(

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T12:11:41+00:00
Yes, but I find it useful to have them at the top since they're global defaults.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T12:13:07+00:00
I won't change this here, but I added it to my list to change later

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T12:21:06+00:00
It should be mdb_set_compare, but it looks like those tables could be made dupsort, yes, as well as the existing one, it might save some more space. I'll change to _compare for now and think about it afterwards.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T12:27:29+00:00
It can be pruned in theory, but isn't in this case, because you can't recalculate its txid otherwise (with v2, you can because you can keep the hash of the prunable part).

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T12:52:27+00:00
I think I left it as is for code I did not know.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T12:53:18+00:00
Yes.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T12:56:53+00:00
Typically, yes, but if you find another chain, the block queue might have blocks from earlier heights.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T13:26:37+00:00
You seem to be right, this part of the condition should never happen. I'll remove it.

Also, this code is ad hoc to try and find a middle ground between "all on the current stripe to get needed blocks asap" and "start early on future blocks to avoid a pause later while we reconnect", it's a lot of "change it and see how sync speed changes".



## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T13:27:53+00:00
You can also get small ducks like _< from time to time, rarely though. Not sure you can get the full _o< but I think you can :)

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T13:29:48+00:00
No, the local pruning should be irrelevant here. Can you expand on why you think it matters here ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-22T13:31:02+00:00
Probably not...

## stoffu | 2018-12-23T02:29:50+00:00
Maybe put `blockchain_height < CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS ? 0 : blockchain_height - CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS` just in case?

## stoffu | 2018-12-23T02:41:02+00:00
A closing parenthesis is missing

## stoffu | 2018-12-23T02:55:23+00:00
The function `check_spend_proof` verifies each ring signature included in the input string. To do so, it uses the tx prefix data (vin) and queries the daemon for the corresponding output keys. I'm pretty sure pruned tx data will do here.

For that matter, I doubt there's any code in the wallet that requires unpruned data from the daemon.


## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-23T11:19:25+00:00
That could only trigger if h + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS overflows and blockchain_height is < 5500, so h is very large. Instead, I've added asserts at start that the parameters are in valid range.

## stoffu | 2018-12-25T09:54:49+00:00
I had this question because of this comment

    // as we now can request out of order,

I interpreted it as meaning that the new pruning scheme now allows us to request blocks out of order, or conversely, out-of-order request is not allowed when pruning is disabled. My understanding on how block queue and download take place is generally quite limited, so probably my question is irrelevant.


## stoffu | 2018-12-25T10:03:57+00:00
> That could only trigger if h + CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS overflows

I wasn't thinking about `h` being too large, it can trigger simply when `blockchain_height < CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS` even with small `h`, no? E.g. if `h:=10, CRYPTONOTE_PRUNING_TIP_BLOCKS:=5500, blockchain_height:=5000` then 10 + 5500 > 5000 and 5000 - 5500 wraps around.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-25T12:26:57+00:00
I don't think that can happen, but I've added that change anyway so we're sure.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-12-25T12:29:01+00:00
We can request (and receive) blocks out of order, regardless of whether we're pruning.

## stoffu | 2019-01-04T00:48:43+00:00
I assume this is intended for cases of deep reorg (> 5500 blocks). Do the unpruned txes returned to the pool get re-broadcast to other nodes who may have pruned those txes?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-04T01:26:01+00:00
It is for those deep reorgs, yes. I think those unpruned txes that re-added will get re-broadcast on a timer if they're still in the pool when the timer triggers. However, if we're popping, it's very likely that it's because we've just seen a new longer chain, and that chain will most likely included pretty much all those txes anyway, so they'll get taken out of the pool.


## stoffu | 2019-01-04T01:28:58+00:00
Thanks for clarifying.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-16T06:48:08+00:00
`to_string` is a waste here; `ss << stripe << state_char`.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-16T07:47:34+00:00
Old, now irrelevant comment

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-16T09:21:19+00:00
It is supposed to work only with integers.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-16T09:21:45+00:00
Can you eplain why ?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-16T17:22:07+00:00
When making that future change, I recommend changing these to `memcpy` for portability. These current compare functions violate the aliasing rule, and will fail in some cases if the pointer is not aligned. The compiler will automatically convert a `memcpy` into what is "desired" here on platforms that support unaligned memory access (i.e. on amd64 the code generated is identical in my disassembling tests).

## vtnerd | 2019-01-16T17:34:31+00:00
Doesn't LMDB do this page size logic internally? Not a big deal, but the LMDB call seems unnecessary.

The other funkiness is that the lmdb call uses `size_t` and some overflow funkiness could occur across platforms.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-16T17:45:21+00:00
Why is this manually inspecting the LMDB file size instead of letting LMDB return an error when it needs to be resized? This adds lots of logic for detecting when this needs to occur and its likely to be brittle since it has to match internal LMDB logic. 

## vtnerd | 2019-01-16T19:17:42+00:00
`n < core_storage.size()`.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-16T22:42:54+00:00
I'm not sure which point -

`constexpr` isn't all that important here. There aren't any strong argument for or against in this situation. If a function is trivially `constexpr`, I add the keyword because its usable in more contexts and _kind of_ indicates to other programmers that the function is "pure" (but that's not really a guarantee, sadly).

`static` in namespace scope tells the compiler to hide the function from other compilation units (internal linkage). This is nice if the function is in a cpp because it prevents a naming collision, but when used in a header it potentially [results in multiple copies of the functions](https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/cplusplus/DCL59-CPP.+Do+not+define+an+unnamed+namespace+in+a+header+file) within the executable. Its best to remove `static` from the namespace variables in the header too.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-16T23:58:08+00:00
i meant "why constexpr", and "why not static". I use "static inline" as "this should be inlined, and don't emit a public version, this won't be called from another TU". AFAIK constexpr means "this can be collapsed to a constant at compile time", which seems to be not quite the whole truth, since calls to this are made with variables, so part of the question is "what does constexpr do in this case". This is from my C background though, so my question is really "why is your way better because I'm not changing it if I don't understand why it is".

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T00:01:19+00:00
I assume you mean memcmp. If we do that, then the sorting will be reversed on little/big endian archs, no ?

About the page size logic, do you mean the quantizing ? It probably does it internally, yes. I suppose this can be removed, it just felt better I guess.

Your last sentence got clipped.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T00:03:25+00:00
I think I might have to add such checks in more places, and I'd have to add code for retrying. This seems simpler, but then I've not done the other way to actually compare. I'm not sure what logic you say it must match.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T00:48:27+00:00
Exactly, two overloads - `std::uintmax_t` and `std::intmax_t` would work for every integer type. Only `std::uintmax_t` is needed right now. Add `int` and `unsigned` if there was some platform performance considerations - the cpp could contain the templated function which is invoked by the non-templated overloads.

Using templates here forces every cpp unit that uses the function to generate ASM, then have the linker filter the extras out. It also means that there were be nearly identical ASM copies, one for each type (`short`, `int`, `long`, and `long long` + `unsigned` variants) that was used. Cleaning up the templates in this file is already one of the many todos I have.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T02:33:31+00:00
There's no need to allocate + copy the bytes here.
```c++
...
const char* const begin = static_cast<const char*>(v.mv_data);
if (tools::read_variant(begin, begin + v.mv_size, version) <= 0)
...
```
This is called very often, so this should have an impact on performance.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T02:39:22+00:00
Seems like a sizeof pruning_seed_key

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T02:44:24+00:00
Aren't these dependent on the config setting for stripe size? The size can only be 1,2,3. Why even have that as a build-time-config option? Much of this logic is going to be broken if that value is changed, including the how the peer downloading selection is done. Or maybe the config just needs to state that 3 is the largest possible value (although there's more "bit space" for larger values).

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T06:16:00+00:00
memcpy

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T06:16:54+00:00
I made this comment down below, a temporary string does not have to be created here.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T06:38:44+00:00
> AFAIK constexpr means "this can be collapsed to a constant at compile time", which seems to be not quite the whole truth, since calls to this are made with variables, so part of the question is "what does constexpr do in this case".

A `constexpr` function can be evaluated at compile or runtime. If one or more of the arguments are not a compile-time literal, then the function is evaluated at runtime. It allows for a single implementation to work in either situation. It seemed like it might be useful generating some constants with this function (at a glance), maybe not. Generally if the function is this simple I just mark it as `constexpr` since it can be used in several contexts.

> I use "static inline" as "this should be inlined, and don't emit a public version, this won't be called from another TU.

If the compiler inlines the function, then it doesn't matter because it pretty much did what you wanted (the function ASM is jammed into another). If the compiler chooses to not inline the function (which it is allowed to do, even with this keyword), then multiple copies of the function can exist in the executable. Removing the `static` keyword makes the function copies from each TU visible to the linker, which is required to merge them into a single version (one-definition rule). There are advantages to hidden visibility, I'm just not seeing them in this situation. Luckily, these are so simple that there is a high probability that they get inlined anyway.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T06:53:18+00:00
Now included 2 lines above.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T06:55:43+00:00
This is done at least twice at in the code, and is quite critical ... function?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T07:10:33+00:00
So I've been staring at the same expression over and over ... why multiple by 2 all over instead of just definig the log stripes by *2 or creating another define somewhere does this once?

Also, a small thing, but there is a bias in this random generation - the current modulus value is not a power of 2.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T07:23:27+00:00
Why is this function duplicated? I think someone else commented on that, but not seeing it now.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T07:27:43+00:00
Can the number of stripes be realistically changed? I mention this elsewhere - I don't think it can the way the seed is packed, etc. (only less stripes). And then there's the network funkiness too.

Also, is this portion a duplicate of the `get_pruning_stripe` overload just below this? The only difference seems to be if `log_stripes` is zero, but elsewhere that seems to indicate some failure case (because the size of the stripes was never recorded.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T07:36:41+00:00
memcpy

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T07:37:34+00:00
memcpy

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T07:39:13+00:00
Why not create a separate function for these portions? Its complete separated in here ...

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T07:41:40+00:00
looks like a `else if` here

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T07:56:15+00:00
Is this a crude, and potentially incorrect varint-version check? Or rather, what is that second check?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T08:14:37+00:00
Yikes. Another strategy would be to overload `operator<<` for this object and then do `current peers " << *this` below, which would delay the string creation too. Still a massive log statement though.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T08:23:55+00:00
> I assume you mean memcmp. If we do that, then the sorting will be reversed on little/big endian archs, no ?

I think this is meant for the comment above. I meant `memcpy` instead of the cast to an integer which violates the aliasing rule.

> About the page size logic, do you mean the quantizing ? It probably does it internally, yes. I suppose this can be removed, it just felt better I guess.

Yes, I meant that alignment logic.

> Your last sentence got clipped.

 I was commenting on how this was doing math on `size_t`, assigning to `uint64_t`, and then implicitly converting back to `size_t` in the call to resize. Overflows are unlikely on 64-bit platforms, but some platforms still use 32-bit `size_t` (thus overflow before assignment to uint64_t).

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T10:35:23+00:00
Two of your comments show with a single reply box so yes, this is replying to the two comments.

About the types, I now changed it to be exactly like the existing, wihch goes through double, and is shown to work on 32 bits.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T10:35:50+00:00
About the memcmp, I'll change that once those functions get merged in src/blockchain_db/lmdb

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T10:37:59+00:00
Yes, but since it's done that way in the existing code, I'll keep my paint colour here for consistency.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T10:40:19+00:00
They are dependent. There's a build time limit because you do need to know where to place bits for all nodes to know how to parse the data. There's some scope to increase, which is supposed to handle what seemed sane at the time.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T10:42:44+00:00
Well, it needs to be between 1 and the max stripe number. If it's not, bad things will happen yes. Other than that, it doesn't matter as long as it's mostly equiprobable.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T10:43:24+00:00
I'm not following here.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T10:44:17+00:00
Same reason why the compare_* functions are. I suppose all those could go into a lmdb helpers file somewhere. I'll do that when I do the compare functions.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T10:55:51+00:00
It's supposed to be able to increase by factors of 2. The sync code doesn't support it at the moment and will reject a different number.
Yes, it looks to be the same code. A 0 log here should not happen in normal use since it'd also have a 0 stripe and be handled above.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T11:06:15+00:00
else if what ? It seems ok: first part for "we want to prune this", second part for "we don't".


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T11:11:32+00:00
It is. I'll make it do actual varint parsing.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T11:24:03+00:00
It's not the first time you say that. Still not compiling:

/home/user/src/bitmonero/src/cryptonote_core/blockchain.cpp:2060:14: error: no matching function for call to 'read_varint'
  int read = tools::read_varint(begin, begin + bd.size(), version);

<pre>
static size_t get_transaction_version(const cryptonote::blobdata &bd)
{ 
  size_t version;
  const char* const begin = static_cast<const char*>(bd.data());
  int read = tools::read_varint(begin, begin + bd.size(), version);
  if (read <= 0)
    throw std::runtime_error("Internal error getting transaction version");
  return version;
}
</pre>

If you want that, paste a version that compiles, I'm not prodding it randomly till something passes.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T11:32:26+00:00
Same answer as to why do it I suppose. It could be that way too. It doens't seem particularly better either way. One indent fewer, more code.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T11:58:15+00:00
And removing the second const doens't help.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T14:27:47+00:00
I've done that now actually (at least the varint parsing part). Also the compare functions. Still needs a varint call that compiles though.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T19:17:22+00:00
This already has code that checks + attempts to calculate the data usage. Except if it doesn't match what LMDB does internally fairly close, it should get stuck since the error case isn't handled directly (unless LMDB does an automatic resize on next open).

The LMDB utils patch was somewhat clunky - it would backoff and try the whole operation again (a write is done in a lambda that returns failure so the write function could resize + retry). Since there aren't multiple threads in here, some simple macro and/or function should do the trick. Like

```c++
#define TRY_PUT(env, txn, ...) \
  for (unsigned attempts = 0; attempts < 3; ++attempts) \
  { \
    const int error = __VA_ARGS__ ; \
    if (error == 0) \
      break; \
    if (error != MDB_MAP_FULL || 2 <= attempts) \
      throw ...; \
    \
    resize_map(env, &txn); \
  }
```

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T19:19:17+00:00
That's my point - why have that in the config? Is it realistic that it could be changed at all?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T19:19:50+00:00
And what about putting this into a function?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T19:26:58+00:00
Well, I was intending to do so when the chain's larger and we have more nodes up, but then I suppose I'd need to have done the code to know whether it's realistic in practice. The idea was that every pruned node would drop a random half the eighth they kept, and update their seed accordingly.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T19:29:07+00:00
OK. Looking at the source, it seems it's just three different places, as opposed to two, so not much more complicated indeed.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T19:30:02+00:00
Just that one line, that picks a random number between 1 and max stripes ?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T19:32:10+00:00
The `else` block contains a single `if` and nothing else - it can be "hoisted" into an `else if`. Just an odd thing that makes audting the code at a glance a bit frustrating because I'm trying to match a lot of braces with only two spaces indenting. 

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T19:42:58+00:00
I don't think its worth changing this here and now, but the codebase needs to shift away from the massive functions seen in wallet2 and elsewhere - the maintainability of a codebase suffers with mondo functions. Its easier to introduce unintended bugs with so many variables to keep track of in temporary (human!) memory. The "unwritten" rule/target I have is generally 7-10 variables in a loop / function. I probably miss that target too frequently (as do most programmers).

BTW, I stole this principle from an effective Java programmer who insisted he was tested to only have a working space memory for ~5 elements, less than the typical average of ~7. Yet, this programmer seemed to have a lower bug count than the average programmer.

EDIT: 7-10 variables in a function is obviously fairly restrictive, only point being its easier on the brain, especially when auditing code, when things are subdivded a bit.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T19:45:05+00:00
OK. It makes more sense this way I think, since the branch is small and it matches the logic in the other one (test pruned/unpruned first, then mode).

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T19:45:19+00:00
done

## vtnerd | 2019-01-17T21:19:38+00:00
They both have to be l-values due to the parameter list. And the second const would break the instantiation stage:
```c++
const char* begin = static_cast<const char*>(v.mv_data);
const char* end = begin + v.mv_size;
read_varint(begin, end, version);
```

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T22:56:15+00:00
This version doesn't compile either.

<pre>
  bool is_v1_tx(const blobdata_ref& tx_blob)
  {
    uint64_t version;
    const char* begin = static_cast<const char*>(tx_blob.data());
    const char* end = begin + tx_blob.size();
    int read = tools::read_varint(begin, end, version);
    if (read <= 0)
      throw std::runtime_error("Internal error getting transaction version");
    return version <= 1;
  }
</pre>

<pre>
[ 31%] Building CXX object src/cryptonote_basic/CMakeFiles/obj_cryptonote_basic.dir/cryptonote_format_utils.cpp.o
In file included from /home/user/src/bitmonero/src/cryptonote_basic/cryptonote_format_utils.cpp:36:
In file included from /home/user/src/bitmonero/src/cryptonote_basic/cryptonote_format_utils.h:33:
In file included from /home/user/src/bitmonero/src/cryptonote_basic/cryptonote_basic_impl.h:33:
In file included from /home/user/src/bitmonero/src/cryptonote_basic/cryptonote_basic.h:41:
In file included from /home/user/src/bitmonero/src/serialization/binary_archive.h:41:
/home/user/src/bitmonero/src/common/varint.h:126:12: error: no matching function for call to 'read_varint'
    return read_varint<std::numeric_limits<T>::digits, InputIt, T>(std::move(first), std::move(last), i);
           ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/home/user/src/bitmonero/src/cryptonote_basic/cryptonote_format_utils.cpp:241:23: note: in instantiation of function template specialization 'tools::read_varint<const char *&, unsigned long>' requested here
    int read = tools::read_varint(begin, end, version);
                      ^
/home/user/src/bitmonero/src/common/varint.h:94:5: note: candidate function not viable: no known conversion from 'typename std::remove_reference<const char *&>::type' (aka 'const char *') to 'const char *&&' for 1st argument
    read_varint(InputIt &&first, InputIt &&last, T &write) {
    ^
/home/user/src/bitmonero/src/common/varint.h:125:9: note: candidate template ignored: invalid explicitly-specified argument for template parameter 'InputIt'
    int read_varint(InputIt &&first, InputIt &&last, T &i) {
        ^
1 error generated.
</pre>

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T22:56:47+00:00
blobdata_ref is a epee::span\<const char\>

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-17T23:00:42+00:00
I've made it for just uint32_t since that's what it's used for.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-18T01:04:48+00:00
This seems to be an existing assumption - how is underflow prevented/checked? It looks like the caller has to do it.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-18T01:19:05+00:00
Variable no longer appears necessary.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-18T02:44:16+00:00
Why remove the other case (state before handshake)?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-18T08:00:01+00:00
How large do these get? `std::lower_bound` will help with sorted insertion for binary searching.

And why remove then immediately insert? Am I missing something?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-18T08:02:05+00:00
Seems easier to iterate over the elements as opposed to this so that it always works regardless of the size of `m_used_stripe_peers`. Unless only a subset need to be cleared?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-18T08:08:18+00:00
Is this a re-write of `get_outgoing_connections_count`?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-18T08:27:36+00:00
... std::chrono is usually a bit easier for this kind of stuff ...

## vtnerd | 2019-01-18T08:36:05+00:00
Its a bug in the overload (2nd version):

```c++
return read_varint<std::numeric_limits<T>::digits>(std::forward<InputIt>(first), std::forward<InputIt>(last), i);
```
That one did compile, at least with clang 6.

EDIT: I change the source of the `read_varint` to get the compile to work.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-18T08:38:06+00:00
> About the types, I now changed it to be exactly like the existing, wihch goes through double, and is shown to work on 32 bits.

I'm not sure what this means. I was originally commented on the:

```c++
uint64_t new_mapsize = mei.me_mapsize + bytes;
new_mapsize += (new_mapsize % mst.ms_psize);
```
and I wasn't immediately sure whether that could overflow before assignment.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-18T11:08:36+00:00
I mean I changed it to:
<pre>
  uint64_t new_mapsize = (double)mei.me_mapsize + bytes;
  new_mapsize += (new_mapsize % mst.ms_psize);
</pre>
which is what the existing code does in db_lmdb.cpp, and this one is shown to work on 32 bit archs since some people ran monerod there.


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-18T11:19:01+00:00
I've added a check for underflow, and a remote height sanity check in the caller for overflow.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-18T11:21:37+00:00
There is now a network level timeout that kicks inactive peers, and the action (set the node on standby) does not make sense if the peer hasn't handshaked yet.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-18T11:25:36+00:00
Probably not very large, since they're the ones that you started syncing from, and you'll start reusing them when you get back to their stripe . The removal is to avoid any dupe. It could be a set, you might say. But for small things like that, not sure it's a win. Besides, a LIFO might be a good thing to do (FIFO currently).

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-18T11:26:44+00:00
No, it clears all the element.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-18T11:28:52+00:00
Looks like it.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-18T11:34:10+00:00
Ah, that was because it's not accessible from there.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-18T11:35:32+00:00
Thanks, that worked eventually. CLANG 6 too though.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-18T15:48:09+00:00
Actually, it is. You end up having to spam parameters to that try_put proxy, which has to commit, reopen cursors, etc. I'll leave it that way.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-18T22:32:45+00:00
I meant doing a foreach (`for ( : )`) loop instead. It links the real size with behavior instead of two separate places.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-18T22:46:44+00:00
Why `double` instead of `uint64_t`?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-18T23:44:21+00:00
OK

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-18T23:47:44+00:00
i don't know. I don't think I wrote the original. I do agree uint64_t would seem more suited to it.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-18T23:51:07+00:00
Looking at git, it's from ND ages ago, so no asking what that was about. I think I'll just replace with uint64_t in the original separately, then change to uint64_t here in the patch.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-13T11:07:29+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-01-28T11:56:05+00:00
