---
title: 'fcmp++: faster & cleaner transparent amount commitment handling, and detangle
  deps'
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/43
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-05-15T21:50:16+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-07-03T18:37:15+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-07-03T18:37:15+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-07-03T18:37:14+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Implemented some of the ideas discussed in #20 and #22

- [Cache transparent amount commitments](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/20#discussion_r2061628581) per block
  - Removes duplicate expensive calls to calculate the commitment.
  - Does the transparent amount calculations in cryptonote core (tx verification utils), which links ringct.
- [Moved `getCommitment` from the ringct lib to `get_commitment` in cryptonote format utils](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/20#discussion_r2027741327).
   - The function no longer does the expensive calculation. Instead it expects the calculation to be done already, it's just reading the commitment where it's supposed to read it from.
- [Avoided storing default locked outputs just to delete them](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/22#issuecomment-2842889302).
- Removed outs by last last locked block param from `add_block` and set up a separate public `add_locked_outputs` function. This avoids parameter overloading and felt simpler.
- Moved `get_outs_by_last_locked_block` into cryptonote format utils, making sure blockchain_db doesn't need to link ringct.
  - `get_outs_by_last_locked_block` calls `tx_outs_checked_for_torsion`, and we discussed [placing `tx_outs_checked_for_torsion` in tx verification utils](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/20#discussion_r2027743193) (cryptonote core). I decided to place both in cryptonote format utils.
   - Imo since setting up outs by last locked block is now a relatively inexpensive operation that's basically just structuring data rather than doing expensive calculations, I felt it fits within "formatting" and is "basic" enough that it belongs in cryptonote basic rather than cryptonote core. If people need it for whatever reason and don't need to link cryptonote core, this is also helpful. I also felt since `check_output_types` is in cryptonote format utils (which itself I feel is justifiable -- "is the format of the outputs acceptable"), that it also makes sense to keep `tx_outs_checked_for_torsion` there too ("were outputs formatted this way checked for torsion").
   - The code is now structured to allow placing `tx_outs_for_torsion` and `get_outs_by_last_locked_block` in tx verification utils, all callers link cryptonote core already. I don't mind moving it over, it would take 5 minutes now.

____

A few general principles/ideas I want to implement in the future:

- Minimize consensus / cryptonote logic in db_lmdb, aim to simply shuffle data into that class.
- Don't over-expose public functions from the BlockchainLMDB class, aim to keep its API simple.
- Don't do expensive calculations while writing (e.g. build the tree extension before entering the "write" section of adding a block) to allow verification to hold a read lock (allowing concurrent reads / RPC calls) for the slow portion of `handle_block_to_main_chain`.
- Reduce data stored (the big one lingering right now is storing output pubkeys and commitments twice -- once in the current amount output table, and again in the leaves table). I would like to tackle this at some point, likely when/after handling `scan_tx` and supporting fetching paths (it's an extra ~10gb for 150mn outputs).

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2025-06-05T14:48:39+00:00
For ease of reading, it could be nice to have an overload of `collect_transparent_amount_commitments` that takes a `cryptonote::block` and does all the collecting for the transparent amounts in that block since it seems to be a pretty repetitive pattern that shows up in this PR. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-06-05T14:57:03+00:00
Very nit-picky, but you should always call `reserve()` *before* you add the first element (`std::cref(b.miner_tx)` in this case). Because as soon as you add the first element, the `std::vector` *has* to allocate, an the call to `reserve` is too late. IIRC, in g++'s stdlib, the vector is *unallocated* after the default constructor, which means the call to `reserve()` triggers the first allocation. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-06-23T08:10:05+00:00
`amount_output_indices[i]` may cause a segfault and/or extreme slowdowns if `amount_output_indices` is not aligned to `uint64_t`.

## jeffro256 | 2025-06-23T08:10:24+00:00
```suggestion
  const size_t num_amount_output_indices = v_tx_output.mv_size / sizeof(uint64_t);
```

## jeffro256 | 2025-06-23T08:13:31+00:00
This breaks the strict aliasing rule and may cause segfaults for unaligned data. 

## j-berman | 2025-06-23T23:42:30+00:00
Fine with handling this in a future/separate PR to the Monero repo?

This is how this db value is read 6 other times in this file already: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/c572e1ad00802fc83b756460838d01436a512750/src/blockchain_db/lmdb/db_lmdb.cpp

## j-berman | 2025-06-23T23:42:42+00:00
Same as other comment, see: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/c572e1ad00802fc83b756460838d01436a512750/src/blockchain_db/lmdb/db_lmdb.cpp#L3581-L3590

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2025-05-15T21:50:16+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-07-03T18:37:14+00:00
