---
title: 'build: fix Ubuntu 16.04 (GCC 5.4.0) compilation'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4814
author: xiphon
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-11-06T22:04:38+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-07-14T11:23:12+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-11-07T13:03:14+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-11-07T13:03:14+00:00'
---

# Original Description
@iDunk5400 reported in #monero-dev
> Current master on Ubuntu 16.04 (GCC 5.4.0)  https://paste.fedoraproject.org/paste/LbcCnZn31BNLwhHXQU0fqQ/raw

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-06T22:49:10+00:00
No &, or the following might read a deleted object.

## xiphon | 2018-11-06T23:00:28+00:00
No, that's not gonna happen

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-06T23:21:35+00:00
Why not ?

## xiphon | 2018-11-06T23:49:26+00:00
Trust me, i know how the C++ works.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-07T00:05:26+00:00
While a simple test case appears to support your opinion, "trust me" just isn't going to work :)
Can you explain why this is not accessing a ref to unwound stack space, since the object isn't copied to something in scope ?

## ndorf | 2018-11-07T00:29:06+00:00
"Whenever a reference is bound to a temporary or to a subobject thereof, the lifetime of the temporary is extended to match the lifetime of the reference, [with the following exceptions](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/reference_initialization#Lifetime_of_a_temporary): "

edit to clarify: Those exceptions don't apply here, this code is safe

## SChernykh | 2018-11-07T06:36:15+00:00
I would say that & is only confusing and not needed here anyway. export_outputs is defined as
```
std::pair<size_t, std::vector<tools::wallet2::transfer_details>> wallet2::export_outputs() const
```
and writing
```
auto outputs = exports_outputs()
```
is much cleaner/easy to read. Compiler will take care of efficiency and return value optimization. There will be no excess copy.

## SChernykh | 2018-11-07T06:45:53+00:00
Actually, `auto outputs = exports_outputs()` will invoke move constructors for std::pair and std::vector here, so it's guaranteed that there will be no excess copy. It's better to remove &

P.S. I would rather rewrite the last line of export_outputs() to `return std::make_pair(offset, std::move(outs));` if you really want to have no excess copies here.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-07T09:24:18+00:00
Thanks ndorf, I did not know that.

## deleted_user | 2018-11-07T11:10:06+00:00
@xiphon did you read this last bit of the conversation?

## vtnerd | 2018-11-07T17:01:59+00:00
@SChernykh @NanoAkron  I doubt there is any difference in the ASM. On most ABIs, the callee chooses between move, copy or RVO with the caller providing the address. `const auto`, `auto` and `const auto&` only differ in how the caller can use the value after calling the function. `const auto&` has the advantage that if the return signature changes to `const &`, it still does the most optimal thing. I usually don't do this myself, but it can be good practice in some situations (particularly templated code).
 
However, if this value (`output`) were returned in this function (`export_outputs_to_str()`), then `auto` is better than `const auto` or `const auto&` because if the compiler cannot perform RVO it is required to copy instead of move. I've been making copy-constructors deleted and using `foo clone() const` (stolen from Rust!) instead as it catches these types of hidden copies (but isn't always possible with STL or boost code).

> P.S. I would rather rewrite the last line of export_outputs() to return std::make_pair(offset, std::move(outs)); if you really want to have no excess copies here.

Yup.

# Action History
- Created by: xiphon | 2018-11-06T22:04:38+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-11-07T13:03:14+00:00
