---
title: 'epee: add SSL support'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4054
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-06-25T22:53:44+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-03-04T19:17:32+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-03-04T19:17:32+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-03-04T19:17:32+00:00'
---

# Original Description
P2P and RPC connections now have optional tranparent SSL.

An optional private key and certificate file can be passed,
using the --{p2p,rpc,daemon}-ssl-private-key and
--{p2p,rpc,daemon}-ssl-certificate options. Those have as
argument a path to a PEM format private private key and
certificate, respectively.
If not given, a temporary self signed certificate will be used.

SSL can be enabled or disabled using --{p2p,rpc}-ssl, which
accepts autodetect (default), disabled or enabled.

Access can be restricted to particular certificates using the
--{p2p,rpc}-ssl-allowed-certificates, which takes a list of
paths to PEM encoded certificates. This can allow a wallet to
connect to only the daemon they think they're connected to,
by forcing SSL and listing the paths to the known good
certificates.

To generate long term certificates:

openssl genrsa -out /tmp/KEY 4096
openssl req -new -key /tmp/KEY -out /tmp/REQ
openssl x509 -req -days 999999 -sha256 -in /tmp/REQ -signkey /tmp/KEY -out /tmp/CERT

/tmp/KEY is the private key, and /tmp/CERT is the certificate,
both in PEM format. /tmp/REQ can be removed. Adjust the last
command to set expiration date, etc, as needed. It doesn't
make a whole lot of sense for monero anyway, since most servers
will run with one time temporary self signed certificates anyway.

SSL support is transparent, so all communication is done on the
existing ports, with SSL autodetection. This means you can start
using an SSL daemon now, but you should not enforce SSL yet or
nothing will talk to you.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2018-06-27T21:43:27+00:00
As the comments indicate, this fails if the TLS message is split over TCP packets, so its broken.

## hyc | 2019-01-11T01:02:31+00:00
This cert was just created, so its subject_name is empty. Do we want to put some kind of non-empty name in here?

## omartijn | 2019-01-11T08:04:47+00:00
That's a good question. Perhaps something with boost::asio::hostname() ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-11T10:39:38+00:00
I would definitely not want my hostname to leak through a SSL certificate. What is that name used for in practice ?

## hyc | 2019-01-11T11:31:06+00:00
The name in a server cert usually corresponds to its hostname, and clients will verify that the name in the cert matches the name the client tried to connect to. This is one of the typical means of detecting spoofing attacks. Before progressing any further, we should define what is the threat that SSL is being used to protect against?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-11T11:57:58+00:00
AFAIK that name matching's only useful when using CAs. Here, we don't, we give monero the cert we expect to see. No spoofing possible (unless the cert's private key was compromised).

SSL is now used only for RPC. The point is to hide the data from network level snoopers (or people who'd modify the data on the way). And generally add some more encrypted traffic to piss off grab-everything snoops :)

For those people who use a round robin RPC server, they'll have to be set to accept any cert, but they're not expecting to connect to any particular server anyway, so nothing lost. They still gain privacy from their ISP (unless that ISP actively MITMs).


## hyc | 2019-01-11T12:15:57+00:00
> we give monero the cert we expect to see.

I'm missing something here, then. This code generates a cert on the fly, on the monerod. So how does the client "expect" to see this? There's no protection against MITM at all, since any 3rd party could intercept and use their own generated cert. If active MITM is not something we're defending against, we can just skip all of this and use an anonymous Diffie-Hellman ciphersuite for the SSL session.

## deleted_user | 2019-01-11T15:38:40+00:00
It seems to be only used when `certificate_path` is empty, so when no certificate was generated, this code protects against passive eavesdropping, when given, active MITM.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-11T17:24:22+00:00
Yes, as above. Additionally, if you use --\*-allow-any-cert, it will accept any. Otherwise it will require a cert that's in the --\*-allowed-certificates list.

The idea is that a public RPC daemon nay establish a known identity (optional) and accept any cert, a private daemon that one wants to access through the internet will establish a know identity and require a particular cert, a wallet using a third party node will let a random cert be generated (avoids fingerprinting), and a wallet using a private node will have its own cert (which the private node will expect).

## vtnerd | 2019-01-11T18:06:46+00:00
Assign a default constructed object to `m_ssl_socket`. The current code might be implementation defined.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-11T18:14:33+00:00
I have simultaneously been working on updating client SSL stuff here since the proxy code has to touch this very same portion of code. Then I realized that this PR almost certainly changed this function (yup).

I started to use a `boost::variant` to specify the parameters. This allowed for specifying the behavior and values in the same object. For instance, setting the last parameter to true (in this patch) ignores several of the other parameters entirely which is weird. The code I was working with looks something like:

```c++
#include <boost/variant/variant_fwd.hpp>

namespace ssl
{
   struct none_
   {};
   constexpr const none_ none{};

   struct any_certificate_
   {};
   constexpr const any_certificate_ any_certificate{};

   struct default_certificates_
   {};
   constexpr const default_certificates_ default_certificates{};

    struct certificate_file
    {
        std::string path;
    };

   using mode = boost::variant<none_, any_certificate_, default_certificates_, certificate_file>;
}

// client
#include <boost/variant/variant.hpp>
m_http_client.connect(address, port, timeout, ssl::default_certificates);
m_http_client.connect(address, port, timeout, ssl::certificate_file{"/etc/server/file.pem"});
```

Also, if multiple certs are removed then it becomes much easier because there is built-in functionality with `asio::ssl`/`openssl` to use a single cert. Since one certificate can sign multiple server certificates, when would this functionality be used? It seems easier to omit the logic (and thus any potential bugs/memory leaks).

## vtnerd | 2019-01-11T18:18:19+00:00
I had this queued up ages ago, and didn't delete it. Ignore for now.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-11T20:24:28+00:00
Interesting. I have no idea why I did it that way...
Why is it implementation defined btw ?
And you meant the ctor call below, right, not default ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-11T20:28:07+00:00
OK, seems fair enough. The param list is a bit unwieldy indeed.

If I remove the multiple cert thing, then not much code is saved, and it forces the user to select the right cert for every run if they usually use more than one peer. Given it's C++ containers, I really do not expects leaks either.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-11T20:47:23+00:00
Ah. I found why:

/home/user/src/bitmonero/contrib/epee/include/net/net_helper.h:140:18: error: object of type 'boost::asio::ssl::stream<boost::asio::basic_stream_socket<boost::asio::ip::tcp, boost::asio::stream_socket_service<boost::asio::ip::tcp> > >' cannot be assigned because its copy assignment operator is implicitly deleted


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-11T22:20:50+00:00
I intended to, but actually it's not too difficult to fix, though I can't seem to be able to test this, sending a char at a time with a second's delay still ends up with boost buffering all.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-12T00:54:33+00:00
If either the destructor or constructor throws, `m_ssl_socket` is in an indeterminate state and UB will occur the next time the object is touched (during destruction, for instance). It's fairly tricky to code around this - this is yet-another sneakily weird edge case within the language.

I know something similar is done in `epee`, but its something that should likely be updated too.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-12T04:46:06+00:00
It seems like there has to be a better way to reset state of the object, if not `boost::optional` will do what you want. Or you'll manually have to use `std::aligned_storage` and use some bool to track state.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-12T04:55:46+00:00
I meant the usage of openssl calls. `create_ssl_certificate` should need some frees at the end, and there are a number of places where a `std::string` constructor can throw and leak memory. The latter scenario is unlikely at least.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-13T20:57:02+00:00
That all sounds very unlikely, no ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-13T20:59:13+00:00
Sure, but using this as an argument for supporting only one allowed certificate seems reaching quite a bit. If there are leaks on error paths, let's fix them.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-14T18:43:11+00:00
The documentation does not list any possible exceptions, however neither function is marked as `noexcept`. I'm not sure about the ASIO developer, but several Boost developers view `noexcept` as a permanent API specification. Therefore the lack of `noexcept` means some future release could throw. And I'm not entirely certain that these _can't_ throw now; the constructor and destructor sequences are platform specific (due to internal `boost::asio::ip::tcp::socket`).

 If there is no other good technique for resetting state (there doesn't appear to be), UB can be removed with heap allocation, `boost::optional`, or a custom `std::aligned_storage`. Leaving the potential of UB doesn't seem worth it considering the fixes are relatively easy, and two of them can avoid additional allocations.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-15T06:27:13+00:00
I looked up the documentation for `SSL_CTX_load_verify_locations`, and multiple certificates can be put into a single file. ASIO doesn't forward to this function, it would be have to be called manually. Seems easier than risking bugs in iterating through a list manually.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-15T17:00:04+00:00
OK, I'll add a boost::optional here then.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-15T17:02:39+00:00
Actually, a shared_ptr seems even better AFAICT. I'll do that and see if anything complains.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-15T17:03:11+00:00
Ah, nevermind, that's what you said via heap allocation above. So I'll do that.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-15T17:34:51+00:00
What code are you suggesting replacing ? The only code I see looping through allowed certificates is:

<pre>
  std::list<std::string> ssl_allowed_certificates;
  for (const std::string &path: daemon_ssl_allowed_certificates)
  {
      ssl_allowed_certificates.push_back({});
      if (!epee::file_io_utils::load_file_to_string(path, ssl_allowed_certificates.back()))
      {
        MERROR("Failed to load certificate: " << path);
        ssl_allowed_certificates.back() = std::string();
      }
  } 
</pre>

but that doesn't quite seem right to me.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T17:13:41+00:00
This is a duplicate check? And its after derefencing in the above log statement.

Also, `get_ssl_magic_size()` can be `constexpr` so that a `static_assert` be added to ensure the check is valid for those dereferenced bytes.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T17:17:40+00:00
This arithmetic is done as an `int` per C/C++ rules. They could overflow (although it would be rare - it would be a platform where `int` is 16-bits). I would wrap one of the values on each side of the `==` into a `std::uint32_t` to bump the expression arithmetic to a minimum of 32-bits.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T17:19:25+00:00
This function should return 3 possible values: (1) is ssl, (2) is not ssl, or (3) not enough data.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T17:43:36+00:00
My earlier comment about looping through certificates manually was about this function. It has memory leaks in a few pessimistic cases, and can be replaced with `SSL_CTX_load_verify_locations` (mentioned previously). I used that function in my [Socks+RPC patch](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5090/commits/ff045067e1fca5da196e12fe4b3dcf269a26c37a#diff-82c190491713eb4c72c8a03b17dee0c7R42).

The OpenSSL function takes a single file argument, but the file can have multiple certificates within one file. Additionally, the function doesn't do an "exact" match (as done here), but instead treats the certificates in the file as CAs so that verifying one certificate can be used to authorize multiple sites. There is no practical difference in security - in either scenario if a key is compromised that key + "root" key must be tossed since revocation is shaky. If `allowed_certificates` were "pinned" to a hostname - making them valid in a specific context only - then this function would differ a bit from the built-in function. And even then, a callback can be added to do further restrictions on the built-in function.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T17:57:32+00:00
Why the depth restriction?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T18:00:15+00:00
Why `return true` when `!allow_any_certificate`? If false were returned the asio runtime would abort the SSL connection, but instead this relies on the caller of `handshake` to do something.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T18:21:28+00:00
Its generally easier to invert the control flow. Push everything but this block into an internal function, and if it fails change the flag and retry that function.

Also is there a use case where the client would want to autodetect SSL? It seems like an odd request to make from a usage perspective.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T19:23:09+00:00
Why add this code now? Is it realistic to even enable this option right now?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T20:35:33+00:00
`boost::string_ref` or `const char*` would prevent allocation when `MDEBUG` statement is dropped.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T20:39:57+00:00
Invert the control flow; put retry code into sub-function that gets retried. This is difficult to maintain because a subtle change in the connection class or elsewhere can create a difficult to notice infinite loop. Generally why the linux kernel types recommend using `goto` forward only and never back.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T20:45:46+00:00
if an enum is returned here, the special check above isn't needed. Additional need-more-data cases can be added to `is_ssl` transparently.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T20:46:23+00:00
Might be a good time to transition to a `std::atomic`.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T20:48:38+00:00
Shouldn't this be after the `shutdown` below? And why only for the SSL case?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T20:49:46+00:00
Is this an existing bug?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T20:50:58+00:00
`&&` needs to be combine with `std::forward<ReadHandler>(handler)`, and in the write functions below.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T21:42:02+00:00
Adding `ssl_support_t : std::uint8_t` could be useful in shrinking the size of the enumerated type. I also recommend moving to an enum class too, it prevents auto-conversion to/from integers.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T21:44:38+00:00
```c++
struct openssl_bio_free
{
    void operator()(BIO* ptr) const noexcept
    {
        if (ptr)
            BIO_free(ptr);
    }
};
using openssl_bio = std::unique_ptr<BIO, openssl_bio_free>;
```
makes the cleanup automatic, and fixes some rare edge cases where `std::string` throws causing a memory leak.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T21:45:42+00:00
Two missing `BIO_free`s here that would be automatic with `std::unique_ptr` usage.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T21:49:55+00:00
Leaks if log statement throws. Consider:
```c++
struct openssl_public_free
{
    void operator()(EVP_PKEY* ptr) const noexcept
    {
        if (ptr)
            EVP_PKEY_free(ptr);
    }
};
using openssl_public = std::unique_ptr<EVP_PKEY, openssl_public_free>;

struct openssl_x509_free
{
    void operator()(X509* ptr) const noexcept
    {
        if (ptr)
            EVP_PKEY_free(ptr);
    }
};
using openssl_x509 = std::unique_ptr<EVP_PKEY, openssl_x509_free>;
```

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T21:53:42+00:00
Is this the expiration date? 10 years seems too long for a temporary key. I wouldn't make this more than a year, and perhaps as low as 6 months.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T21:54:58+00:00
Seen this conversion from string twice, seems an easy function to make to keep consistent.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-25T21:56:30+00:00
The private key and public certificate should likely be combined into one struct argument to make the relationship clear (they must come in pairs).

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:20:33+00:00
It should be enough to use 256u here, right, if we wanted to support 16 bit ints ?


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:22:43+00:00
I'm happy with false in this case. I could add an exception if below magic size if you'd rather.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:27:02+00:00
If you're refering to std::string ctor throwing out of memory, I can make the bio ptr a unique_ptr. I'd rather not change the SSL code now, but if you're sure this does the same thing, you can change it later. omartinj changed this so you can whitelist fingerprints as well as certificates too.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:28:57+00:00
I'm not 100% sure now. I think it might have said a cert was verified if it was signed by a root CA or something. In any case, since I don't care about signing with other certs, a depth of 1 ensures that such signing isn't taken into account in the first place AFAICT.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:31:09+00:00
This means a certificate is valid, just not in the allowed list. If you think it's safer to return false instead, I can do that.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:34:30+00:00
Well, doing it this way seems fairly unobtrusive. A client may not know if the daemon (typically) it's connecting to supports SSL (for instance for public RPC dameons). This check means it can use SSL when the daemon supports it (granted, it doesn't protect at all against active attackers, but it does against passive ones).

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:35:21+00:00
It was here before, you asked for it to be taken out. It seems possibly useful. If you're really against it I'll remove it outright.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:39:23+00:00
That code is like 80 lines of existing code you're asking to be moved, if I understand what you're asking, while this patch is much less intrusive. Or am I missing your point ?
Also, can you give an example of a change in the connection class which would break this ? Maybe that will let me see the point.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:41:25+00:00
OK, this can make it simpler here, I'll do it.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:42:05+00:00
That said, I could not test that code by sending data byte by byte, boost seems to buffer by itself.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:45:09+00:00
Actually, after doing it, it turns out it the code doesn't get simpler so I'll keep it that way.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:47:23+00:00
That close is for the SSL layer. shutdown below should be called on socket_ I think (the lower layer once the SSL layer is closed), not socket().

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:49:11+00:00
It must be. I don't recall the details of when I did this.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-25T22:51:10+00:00
Over my head.
Do you mean:
> socket_.async_read_some(buffers, handler);
should be:
> socket_.async_read_some(buffers, std::forward\<ReadHandler\>(handler));

If so I have no idea why but I'll do that once comfirmed.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-26T02:13:23+00:00
I've used the code you suggested below.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-26T03:13:48+00:00
You were right.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-26T03:14:29+00:00
Removed.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-28T20:37:22+00:00
The depth setting is related but separate from "root" CAs on a system - they require an explicit call to load. This `set_verify_depth` calls prevents _anyone_ from using a certificate that can sign other certificates. Why prevent this capability?

## vtnerd | 2019-01-28T20:48:40+00:00
Yes, the handler should be "forwarded" just like in the snippet you gave in both cases here and in the write functions. Without this, a temporary `handler` (r-value) is copied instead of moved into the internally allocated asio object. The compiler doesn't automatically forward the object onto the next function; the programmer has the option when/where to pass-by-copy. Search for "universal references".

The difference in this exact situation will be that it saves one `shared_ptr` copy which has an internal atomic reference +/-. 

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-28T21:14:00+00:00
Are you sure ? The manpage says "sets the maximum depth for the certificate chain verification that shall be allowed". I don't read this as what you say here.

## hyc | 2019-01-28T21:28:52+00:00
~~Setting verify_depth to 1 means you will only allow self-signed certs to be used.~~ This doesn't sound like a good idea. It prevents using any cert that was signed by any other cert. Best practice with certs is to generate a single signing cert and use it to sign server/client certs for all the endpoints that need them.

My mistake: depth=1 means only certs signed by a root CA (self-signed cert) are allowed. So this prohibits using certs signed by intermediate CAs.


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-01-29T00:26:14+00:00
Ah, I see, that makes sense, I'll remove it.

## vtnerd | 2019-01-30T05:37:31+00:00
Yeah, I definitely did the math on this wrong during the initial review. The max value here should be 65535 (255*256 + 255 = 65535).

## vtnerd | 2019-01-30T16:05:08+00:00
There is a chunk of code that needs to be executed a maximum of twice. Instead this is creating a loop with a non-obvious termination condition which is likely harder to maintain.   I am proposing something like:

```c++
if (!try_connect(...))
{
    m_ssl_support = epee::net_utils::ssl_support_t::e_ssl_support_disabled;
    if (!try_connect(...))
        return false;
}
```
which executes a specified number of times.

EDIT: This applies to the other `goto` usage too.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-01T23:28:47+00:00
This comment is minor and applies to the bottom (other) case too. 

I expected this to `return false` (the connection failed), and then let the caller determine what to do next. That way, the closing behavior (the portion right here) could be used for either autodetect or enabled mode (which has a separate close routine just below this), and the `ssl` parameter would _not_ need to be passed because the caller would know the context. I.e. this function just fails and the caller determines whether it should run again; `returning true` here makes the `ssl` parameter necessary.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-02T12:06:19+00:00
You need both (3 cases can happen): the physical connection can succeed, but if the peer does not support SSL, the logical connection fails. Then you know you should retry without SSL, which is that case: return true because the connection succeeds, but set ssl to true to say "but we actually need SSL". I suppose you'd use a boost::optional for that :)

## vtnerd | 2019-02-02T16:13:34+00:00
Yes, forgot about the case of connection failure with SSL enabled (differed from connection success with SSL failure). In this instance, I would probably use an enum.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-02T16:15:12+00:00
Well, I might have advocated for a `boost::optional<bool>` in the past, but the difference between null, true, and false seems kind of funky here.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-02T18:52:04+00:00
I'll make it an enum then.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-02T20:06:26+00:00
done

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2018-06-25T22:53:44+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-03-04T19:17:32+00:00
