---
title: Add new command "export_transfers" to save transfers to csv
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4236
author: sachaaaaa
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-08-08T05:12:17+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-11-16T08:57:55+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-11-16T08:57:55+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-11-16T08:57:55+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This pull request adds a new `export_transfers` command to the wallet cli that exports the transfers to a csv file.

Since `show_transfers` and `export_transfers` basically require the same data, I've added a new function `get_transfers` that returns a vector of `transfer_view` structs (new structure as well). That function does all the querying, calculations, sorting and can consume some of the common arguments.
Then, it's up to the caller function to display the data in the appropriate way (print or export as csv).

Notable difference between the csv file and the printed list of transfers:
- The csv file shows the "running balance" next the the transfer amount. This field is not affected by unconfirmed transfers (pending/failed/pool).
- To handle transfers with multiple outputs, the csv file displays a new line for any subsequent outputs after the first one,  showing only the destination address and amount sent:
```
x, <total amount>, xxxxx, xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx, <address1>, <amount 1>
 ,               ,      ,                  , <address2>, <amount 2>
```

Changes made to both:
- display the (shortened) destination address for incoming transfers, to easily match which address the funds were sent to. This will make it easier to match the transfer with the owner's accounts/addresses.


# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2018-08-08T16:21:44+00:00
Not sure writing translated data to a formatted file is a good idea.

## stoffu | 2018-08-09T04:46:56+00:00
Why not do the same as in the "in" case?
```c++
      std::string destination = m_wallet->get_subaddress_as_str({m_current_subaddress_account, pd.m_subaddr_index.minor});
```


## sachaaaaa | 2018-11-12T01:12:14+00:00
Should be ok now.
I have used `tr()` only in `show_transfers` but not in `export_transfers`

## sachaaaaa | 2018-11-12T01:12:43+00:00
Fixed.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-12T19:26:52+00:00
You use tr on literals, since a tool gathers the literal to put it in a file. So tr should be moved to whatever code assigns transfer.direction.

## sachaaaaa | 2018-11-12T22:20:55+00:00
Oh ok, didn't know.
If I move the tr to whatever assigns transfer.direction, then the csv will also be using the translated string. Should I just not use tr at all?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-13T08:45:59+00:00
Ah, good point. Hmm. I suppose if they both have to have the same strings, translated is probably best...

# Action History
- Created by: sachaaaaa | 2018-08-08T05:12:17+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-11-16T08:57:55+00:00
