---
title: Adding classes, functions, and utilities for common LMDB operations.
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4460
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-09-27T21:11:11+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-10-05T02:00:48+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-03-21T12:42:32+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-03-21T12:42:32+00:00'
---

# Original Description
More code used by the [light waller server PR](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/4139). Some of the classes/functions are similar to what exists in the monero codebase, but has been "abstracted" out for re-use. `src/lmdb/database.h` is one such example, along with some conversion to `MDB_val` functions. Some other code is of a new design, `src/lmdb/key_stream.h` and `src/lmdb/value_stream.h` in particular. The light wallet server has functions that "expose" the DB indexes more directly:
```c++
        //! \return All outputs received by `id`.
        expect<lmdb::value_stream<output, cursor::close_outputs>>
            get_outputs(account_id id, cursor::outputs cur = nullptr) noexcept;
```
The C++ type system specifies the value type and the cursor type detects when an incorrect cursor is being provided back to `get_outputs`. Various read-only places in the codebase make use of these no-copy functions, which can prevent extra data copying and memory allocation in some places (when compared to the current techniques used in Monero). For example, calculating sum of incoming amounts:
```c++
auto outs_stream = storage_reader.get_outputs(account_id(0));
std::uint64_t amount = boost::accumulate(
   outs_stream.make_range<MONERO_FIELD(output, amount)>(), std::uint64_t(0)
);
```
which normally requires a specialized function in the DB class to provide the efficiency (only the uint64_t would be copied from the LMDB cursor pointer in this example).

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2018-10-01T13:38:55+00:00
This all relies on lmdb, even though we have a blockchain_db class so that someone may use another db (like a relational one maybe).

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-10-01T13:39:33+00:00
_WIN32 is best, always defined

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-10-01T13:43:07+00:00
That creates a temp object and calls operator() on it, right ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-10-01T13:43:48+00:00
What does this mean ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-10-29T15:06:13+00:00
That said, some of the stuff in blockchain_blackball does rely on lmdb too IIRC.

## vtnerd | 2018-11-04T04:14:20+00:00
Correct. The object is an empty struct (used for `unique_ptr`), so after an optimization pass this is just a function call. A little funky.

## vtnerd | 2018-11-06T17:30:32+00:00
The light wallet server is not abstracted to work with multiple database types. I didn't consider this an issue; I thought Monero already required LMDB as a dependency. Does the core code still work with BerkeleyDB for instance?


## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-06T18:38:15+00:00
The bdb backend is obsolete and unmaintained, that could be removed. Whether LMDB becomes sole dep might be a question to ask though. At the moment, all still goes through the BlockchainDB class (except some tools which read direct off the (LMDB) raw db).

## vtnerd | 2018-11-06T22:40:44+00:00
There doesn't appear to be a way to build without LMDB currently, the vendored version in `external/` is always compiled in.

I thought about the abstractions some, and it should be possible to get the light wallet server working without LMDB. This would likely be a static interface - CMake would include different headers and compile against different files. The server was heavily optimized for LMDB though, so it would be interesting.

## vtnerd | 2018-11-06T22:41:55+00:00
Updating shortly.

## vtnerd | 2018-11-06T22:50:14+00:00
This is returning a `unique_ptr<T>` into a `expect<unique_ptr<T>>`. The C++11 spec was ambiguous whether a move should automatically be performed here, but has been clarified so that a move or return-value-optimization is performed. So on newer compilers `return out;` will work whereas it fails to compile on older versions.

I will drop the comment, because it is doubtful anyone is going to care.

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-06T22:55:18+00:00
I meant the comment :)

## moneromooo-monero | 2018-11-06T22:56:11+00:00
I'm OK with the light wallet server only working with lmdb if it's a conscious choice.

## vtnerd | 2018-11-07T17:07:07+00:00
I forgot to mention that C++ core-defect 1579 addresses this ambiguity. So the code comment is indicating why I did `{std::move(out)}` and the GitHub comment was explaining the core-defect I never referenced.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-05T23:00:52+00:00
Why not a mutex ? Faster if no contention ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-05T23:07:02+00:00
I take it this is not expected to spin hard for long ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-05T23:08:50+00:00
That's a bit violent. If you have a 70 GB DB (as we currently do), this will allocate 70 more.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-19T19:13:30+00:00
Correct, in most cases this should be immediate. This will only spin if a LMDB read or write operation is still in progress, which are typically going to be completed or terminated (via RAII scoping) before the database handle needs to be destroyed.

The alternative was to have a "strong" reference count in the LMDB read and write handles, which would've required "fatter" handles or allocation per handle. A "leaked" handle would no longer permanently block this destructor, but then the LMDB database remains open until process termination too.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-19T21:54:24+00:00
This is now capped at 1GB, which is the resize value used within the blockchain db code.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-19T23:41:04+00:00
Yes, the thinking is that the contention will be low and therefore this will be faster. This is basically a direct copy from the current lmdb blockchain code.

Boost has a spinlock implementation in detail that has some basic yield code if there is a bit of contention. The only problem is that being in the detail namespace means no documentation and no guarantee of API stability (yes, even less than normal!).

I also read through the GNU pthread mutex implementation. The current implementation has a user space locking mechanism before during a system call to block the thread. Its _fairly_ quick, but there is some extra book-keeping work when acquiring or releasing the lock to handle thread suspension. Resuming suspended threads is faster than the boost yield code - the blocking thread "knows" which threads are waiting for it to complete.

I'll look into leveraging the boost yield code. A high majority of the time this is being held for an atomic increment and then released, and in rare cases this blocks during a LMDB map resize. The boost code will help with backoff in that rare case, and adds proper pauses that intel recommends, etc.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2018-09-27T21:11:11+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-03-21T12:42:32+00:00
