---
title: 'Fix readline compilation '
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5690
author: sedited
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-06-25T07:40:43+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-07-13T01:18:30+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-07-13T01:18:30+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-07-13T01:18:30+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Readline is now compiled with ncurses as a backend. I also attempted to build with termcap instead of a full ncurses installation, but since the releases so far have not supported readline on windows and 
 the termap Makefile does not handle installation directories properly that are demanded by depends, 
Besides adding readline, this pull request also adds some debug targets to the depends Makefile. To check all the available targets now, you can run `cat Makefile | awk '!/SHELL/ && /^[A-z]/ {print $1}' | awk '{print substr($0, 1, length($0)-1)}' . 
To speedup the depends cached builds, remove some some clutter from the package files. This mainly includes removing all the shared libraries and .la linker files. It also gives stronger guarantees that monero only links the static libs without any external rvalues. 
Packages can now also be built individually and for each stage. This allows easier debugging.
The travis build fail currently with this build, but I am not sure why.

# Discussion History
## malbit | 2019-06-30T06:38:44+00:00
I think that whitespace should not be at the front of the line. 

## malbit | 2019-06-30T06:39:39+00:00
did you check whitespaces??
It is very sensitive to TAB or SPACE.

## sedited | 2019-06-30T14:41:11+00:00
I'm not quite sure what you want here. Can you suggest a change?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-01T12:34:37+00:00
In a Makefile, tabs precede commands. I'm guessing this is the question here.

# Action History
- Created by: sedited | 2019-06-25T07:40:43+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-07-13T01:18:30+00:00
