---
title: 'fcmp++ / Carrot : fix tests'
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/50
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-05-27T21:16:31+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-06-05T14:41:03+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-06-05T14:41:03+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-06-05T14:41:03+00:00'
---

# Original Description
### This PR

- Bumps mainnet hardfork values so functional tests use the FCMP++/Carrot fork version.
- Fixes race condition core test by advancing the tree after adding block.
- `use_shared_ephemeral_pubkey` when there is one output enote (e.g. for a coinbase tx). Fixes tests relying on the `generateblocks` RPC.
- Reverts the FCMP++ integration into `construct_tx_and_get_tx_key` and `genRctSimple` in order to simplify the code and get core tests to pass.
  - The fcmp++ core test now uses the Carrot tx builders.
- Removes functional tests that rely on creating block templates on top of alt chains since we can no longer do that as of [this change](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/22#issuecomment-2842855983).
- Alters the pool stats response "bytes" to actually tally tx weights. This one felt a little iffy. But technically this must be what's happening today.
- Comments out expected failing functional tests.
- 0-amount outputs are no longer counted as incoming "payments".
- `get_transfers` can now exclude 0-amount Carrot change by setting a param `include_all` to false (defaults to true).
  - I figure it makes sense not to expose users to such transfers as it's a new Carrot feature to include 0-amount outputs in zero-change spends. It's possible that people currently rely on this behavior (returning 0-amount outputs), and this would break that expected behavior. I'm open to reverting this change.
- Processing a background cache now also copies the background cache's tree cache, allowing spending after background syncing.
- Includes a temp change to `wallet2::get_payment_id` that allows background sync tests to pass and should work fine for the usual case (no payment ID set).

### TODO's

- Investigate sporadic failure on `sweep_all`( `make_carrot_transaction_proposal_v1: post-carved transaction does not balance`)
  - The cause is not having enough fees for a tx, mitigated by #51.
- Fix sporadic failure in `k_anonymity` ([link](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/50#issuecomment-2940488580))
  - Maybe this one is ok to leave for now since there is a plan in place to allow >8 inputs per tx, and that should solve it.
- Handle uncaught errors in tx construction (e.g. no unlocked outputs triggering "no input candidates provided" currently breaks the RPC wallet)
- Payments to integrated address.
- Handle tx dests taking Carrot changes into account.
- Handle tx priv keys taking Carrot changes into account.
-  tx proofs
- multisig
- `scan_tx`
- Fee-included transfers.
- Cold/hot wallet integration.
- `wallet2::get_payment_id` updated for Carrot.


# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2025-05-27T21:16:31+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-06-05T14:41:03+00:00
