---
title: I2P/Tor White Noise
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5793
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-08-04T16:30:41+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-04-01T00:35:00+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-08-29T19:37:03+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-08-29T19:37:03+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This adds the "white noise" proposed in [part 2 of my CCS](https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/vtnerd-tor-tx-broadcasting.html). This also moves `monerod` closer to Dandelion++ (there is some code that can be shared between the features). Unfortunately, this does **not** complete part 2 of the CCS, one of the proposed goals was a separate mempool (also needed for Dandelion++). That will be in a hopefully soon-to-be-released patch - hacking the mempool is worthy of its own review. Also, the timestamp in the p2p protocol hasn't been cleared up (not strictly necessary for the CCS).

Completing Dandelion++ will now require:
 * A separate mempool (in the works for my CCS)
 * Loop detection (basically completed with the separate mempool)
 * Support for sending txs in a stem
 * Moving from a "flood" to a "fluff" implementation (see whitepaper and/or Bitcoin implementation).

The last two should be vastly easier to implement after this patch. The stem portion in particular is basically implemented and unit tested - only plumbing between parts is now needed. Anyone wishing to pick this up, see `tests/unit_tests/levin.cpp`, the test framework should make it easy to test stem selection, etc.

### `byte_slice`
I also introduced a golang-like "slice" concept for bytes of data so that the "white noise" could be reference-count bumped instead of constantly copied for each connection. It also made it possible to remove a lock for every p2p message being sent. I haven't measured it, buts its all but certain to improve efficiency in tx relaying and eventually block relaying (each p2p message is generated once instead of copied repeatedly).

### Changes from CCS
This patch also differs from the proposal in the CCS and my Monerokon talk. Another markdown file may be needed but -
  * Two outbound I2P/Tor connections are selected for white noise every 5 minutes
  * A 3 KiB dummy message or tx fragment is sent every 10-15 seconds over these links
  * An I2P/Tor hidden service that receives a tx immediately relays it over the public network instead of a delay. This is because Dandelion++ is likely preferable instead of an arbitrary delay (Dandelion++ has a stem phase then a fluff phase which has some waiting already).

I think these changes are defensible, the last one is the only controversial one. I changed it because once it was obvious that Dandelion++ would be incorporated into `monerod`, it was easier to work "within" that design instead of doing something different. I leave it to the CCS overloads on whether funds should be released as a result - it may mean that I have to complete Dandelion++ to complete the task :/

# Discussion History
## jtgrassie | 2019-08-05T15:50:04+00:00
Formatting looks off. Recommend formatting as a code block as opposed to quote.

## jtgrassie | 2019-08-05T15:53:12+00:00
Is this still needed? code looks to be using std::shared_ptr.

## jtgrassie | 2019-08-05T17:30:52+00:00
Should this be 3*1024 ?

## vtnerd | 2019-08-05T21:12:44+00:00
Looks great in vim! Will change to code block.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-05T21:13:04+00:00
There are still some `boost::shared_ptr`'s in this file, so I added this comment.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-05T21:13:22+00:00
Yup, forgot to revert this after testing. Will revert.

## jtgrassie | 2019-08-05T21:27:14+00:00
Gotcha

## jtgrassie | 2019-08-05T21:29:02+00:00
Everything look great in vim ;)

## jtgrassie | 2019-08-05T21:36:26+00:00
Note you might want to double check this whole table (e.g. looks like 10 bits per byte here and a couple of the field widths look off, such as command is 4 bytes not 2).

## vtnerd | 2019-08-06T17:28:23+00:00
Changed to graphical table to 8-bits (that was embarrassing! whoops!).

The `Command` field was intentionally listed as 2-bytes and the `Version` field was intentionally listed as 1-byte despite both being 4-bytes in the code. The fields are little-endian with the upper portions unused, so I marked them as reserved. I think that was inappropriate because there isn't a way to use them in a backwards compatible way. An older p2p parser would be interpreting things differently.

Both are being changed shortly.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-06T23:14:17+00:00
This should be `pad_txs || network.first != enet::zone::public_` to match existing behavior. That way, if the noise feature is disabled on the network, padding is still automatically used.

Will push a change later (or tomorrow).

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T22:24:54+00:00
I think the standard says the moved object will be destructible-valid, but does not mandate anything else. This means m_fragment_buffer's contents are undefined no ? I expect you intend it to be empty.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T22:26:36+00:00
Is this to save an allocation ? clear never frees ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T22:29:00+00:00
Why did you switch all these boost shared_ptr to std ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T22:37:18+00:00
That'd hard kill the deamon, which may not be the best response. Would throwing instead be better ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T22:40:47+00:00
Since you like micro opts, why are you passing a shared_ptr and not a const shared_ptr&, which saves the atomic inc/dec/test (which is probably not really relevant for speed, but maybe for code size) ? Any advantage doing it this way ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T22:51:18+00:00
Reference to a temporary. I have some vague recollection it's a new C++ change that makes this OK. Can you confirm (it might be you who told me about it in the first place) ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T22:52:39+00:00
Lots of functions check for this. The ctor dereferences without a check. I do not see anything in this class that NULLs the shared_ptr. Is this abundance of caution, or can it actually be NULLed somewhere I did not see ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T23:02:37+00:00
Those two do not match

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T23:04:28+00:00
This implicitely skips over the public zone, correct ? That seems fairly vulnerable to adding another public zone (if we, say, add GSM based connections somewhere, not that we'd do that but for the sake of example).

## vtnerd | 2019-08-20T04:28:22+00:00
Ok, so to rephrase so that it makes more sense to me - if someone added a public type network with an enum value of 4, then it would be treated incorrectly as an anonymity network. I will add a break in here if the zone "exceeds" tor since there I can't think of a `static_assert` that would work. Anyone adding an anonymity network should see that its not using it during testing and adjust.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-20T04:28:38+00:00
Yup, going to fix these.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-20T04:32:15+00:00
The `shared_ptr`s are `std::move`d in both calls to this function, which skips the atomic inc/dec and prevents an indirection (reference/pointer to the internal `shared_ptr` pointer value). In many cases using `const shared_ptr<...>&` for a function parameter is probably preferred because moving is often not possible. This is all "internal" cpp code too, which helps because the number of  call points are limited.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-20T05:08:57+00:00
"A valid but unspecified state". The standard never specifies behavior on moves, so it could copy the data leaving the source unchanged (small string optimization apparently might do this).

Anyway - if the wire format is "valid" then `m_fragment_buffer` is always `clear`ed when the next fragment begins (which puts the object into a specific state from the unspecified state). Or so I thought - the `size()` checks above are not valid - the fragment buffer should be empty for that query might it might not be. I will add a `clear` after this move which will usually be a NOP. Good catch.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-20T05:10:08+00:00
It is up to the implementation, but every implementation implements the `std::vector` requirements (never change capacity). The reason is _probably_ to maintain predictable behavior. Always freeing is less performant in many use cases, and sometimes freeing makes it harder for the programmer to optimize around `reserve`/`clear`, etc.

It might be worth dropping since its not **actually** guaranteed. The code is also minimal at least, and all existing implementations currently re-use the memory.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-20T05:11:36+00:00
These are documenting asserts. Its not possible for them to fail, unless the code is altered. These are also never checked in release builds, so it wouldn't abort in released binaries. The idea is that if a change is made, these should fail in the unit tests (provided someone runs them in debug mode).

## vtnerd | 2019-08-20T05:12:28+00:00
It can't be NULL'ed anywhere unless ASIO botches a move call internally or invokes the same functor twice. I think ASIO documents that it will never invoke a callback twice, but I cannot find that right statement now. Too pessimistic?

## vtnerd | 2019-08-20T05:16:27+00:00
Yeah its an obscure C++ rule, C++ temporary binding. Sometimes I do it because if the function is updated to `const &` then it still compiles+works and no copy is made. It does feel awkward though for some reason. And there is no point right now (and likely ever since its generating a string here), so I will drop it.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-20T11:28:01+00:00
Maybe some templatey C++y thing like...

template<address_type t> struct is_public { static const bool value = false; }
template<> struct is_public<public_> { static const bool value = true; }

Or maybe even don't have a default so additions have to specify one.


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-20T11:29:03+00:00
No, it's fine, I was wondering if I'd missed some clever implicit thing.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-26T10:51:03+00:00
Still at 1 kB.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-26T21:06:22+00:00
I added a check for when the zone is larger than the current expected max to break the processing loop. That trait style won't work because its a compile-time check, whereas this is a runtime value.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-26T21:07:12+00:00
I thought I did this, but clearly not. Just pushed.

## vtnerd | 2019-09-03T17:31:20+00:00
My apologies for failing to respond to this earlier, I will revert to `boost::shared_ptr` if desired.

Initially I wrote the white noise code with `std::shared_ptr`, then near the end realized I had to convert existing `boost::shared_ptr` usage to make it work. I switched to `std::shared_ptr` simply because there isn't a need to use boost if the compiler vendors are providing the same functionality. There might be limited cases where `std::shared_ptr` is faster due to some platform specific implementation, but I doubt there is much difference in practice. 

`std::shared_ptr` also has better `noexcept` specifications right now. Boost does appear to follow C++11 specification, but the documentation will simply state "never throws" in several areas instead of stating `noexcept`.

OTOH, using Boost means a single implementation across platforms. Currently we are using `std::shared_ptr` from libstdc++ (Linux, Windows) and libcxx (OSX).

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2019-08-04T16:30:41+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-08-29T19:37:03+00:00
