---
title: 'core: move hardforks into its own lib'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5831
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-08-20T13:48:10+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-09-24T15:02:50+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-09-24T15:02:50+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-09-24T15:02:49+00:00'
---

# Original Description
So it can be used by others without encumbrance

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2019-08-24T17:18:09+00:00
Can a `uint32_t` or `uint64_t` be used here instead? This type is platform dependent.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-24T17:38:08+00:00
It could, but it's also local only.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-24T22:45:34+00:00
The type and width are unspecified and there are hard-coded constants forced into a `time_t`. Luckily, the compiler is in C++11 mode which is required to fail if narrowing will occur, provided the structure is brace-initialized (which is the case currently). I suppose `time_t` helps provide indication to the expected values ... so I'm not stressing this much.

Although, after peeking at some of these other files, should this be in `src/cryptonote_basic/hardfork.{h|cpp}`?  There is an identical `struct` within that file with an identical purpose. The largest include in `hardfork.h`, `cryptonote_basic.h`, can be dropped with some forward declares. And the primary consumer of this information is the code in `hardfork.cpp`.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-25T00:30:24+00:00
The structs could be merged indeed, but this new file is the data that gets loaded into the existing hardfork class. The one in cryptonote_basic is lib code, so independent of the actual data. I guess it might not matter that much in practice...

## vtnerd | 2019-09-13T02:48:24+00:00
> The structs could be merged indeed, but this new file is the data that gets loaded into the existing hardfork class. The one in cryptonote_basic is lib code, so independent of the actual data. I guess it might not matter that much in practice...

I don't see a difference. Both structs are storing fork information, and one is copied field by field into the other. `Blockchain::get_hard_fork_heights()` is a public static function that already provides the same information externally. The only difference is that this new header includes less files.

Additionally, `Blockchain::get_hard_fork_heights()` is aliasing constant information from another file (after the field-by-field copy into a different struct type), but is storing all of that information is a constant static vector. It might as well return a `epee::span<const hard_fork_info>` passing the information from the other file unchanged. Although, it might mean the entire function is worth scrapping in favor of the other file...

## stoffu | 2019-09-17T03:46:01+00:00
I feel the same as @vtnerd, it seems worthwhile to eliminate some redundant code. I think we can simply replace `HardFork::Params` with `hardfork_t` and `Blockchain::get_hard_fork_heights(MAINNET).back().version` in cryptonote_core.cpp with `(mainnet_hard_forks+num_mainnet_hard_forks-1)->version`, respectively, and remove the unneeded struct and function.

## stoffu | 2019-09-18T04:19:25+00:00
I think it's better to have the hard fork data class defined under the `hardforks` library which is totally independent and easily usable for 3rd party developers. Including `cryptonote_basic/hardfork.h` makes it dependent on `cryptonote_basic.h` for no good reason.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-09-18T10:43:50+00:00
Well, cryptonote_basic.h would then have to depend on hardforks.h, no ?
It'd be like having std::vector depending on a file that defines a particular vector, it seems backwards.

## stoffu | 2019-09-19T09:16:01+00:00
> Well, cryptonote_basic.h would then have to depend on hardforks.h, no ?

Yes, the right way IMO is to have `libhardforks` as an absolutely independent library (similar to `libversion`) and let other libs/apps needing to fetch the data link to it (currently only needed by `libcryptonote_core`). I don't see any problem in `cryptonote_basic/hardfork.h` having to include `hardforks/hardforks.h` (FWIW `cryptonote_basic.h` doesn't need `hardforks.h`).

Your current design will force 3rd party developers wanting to incorporate the hardfork data to their project to copy all dependent header files stemming from `cryptonote_basic/hardfork.h` such as `syncobj.h`, `cryptonote_basic.h`, `serialization/variant.h`, etc, which are completely unrelated.

>  It'd be like having std::vector depending on a file that defines a particular vector, it seems backwards.

I don't understand this analogy.`std::vector` is a class template, seems unrelated.


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-09-19T11:30:14+00:00
The actual precise type is not relevant, but I've done that, but I also switched the type so it gets defined in the included file for it not to feel wrong.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-20T13:48:10+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-09-24T15:02:49+00:00
