---
title: 'Carrot tx proposal overhaul, wallet2_basic lib, sweep fixes, and preliminary
  hot/cold types '
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/51
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-05-30T05:36:17+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-06-06T14:13:36+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-06-06T14:13:36+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-06-06T14:13:36+00:00'
---

# Original Description
### Carrot Tx proposal Overhaul

Instead of inputs being specified using key images in a `CarrotTransactionProposalV1`, they are specified using "opening hints". These opening hints are information which can be passed to an entity with prove-spend key access to construct SA/L proofs, or an entity with generate-image key access to derive key images. An entity without either of those key information, but knowing the key image derivations can still serialize pruned Carrot transactions.

### `wallet2_basic`

This PR contains a minimal subset of the [`wallet2_basic` library](#4), basically just shunting the `wallet2` type definitions and serialization definitions to separate headers. This allows other helper translation units in `src/wallet` to use `wallet2` types without including the whole of `wallet2.h`, especially in *their* associated header files.

### Sweep fixes

Calls to `sweep_all` (and other multi-sweep functions) should sporadically fail less often since small dusty amounts are grouped with large amounts. This still isn't technically ideal, but it should be really hard to error out on this when you otherwise could sweep large amounts. To be more specific, you need to crowd out the large amounts with dusty amounts which don't pay their own fee by ~7x.

### Hot/cold types

I begin to define compact Carrot exported output types for the hot/cold wallet protocol. Tests and integration coming soon. Should be able to progress on this much faster now that the transaction proposal changes are out of the way.

# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2025-05-30T05:36:17+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-06-06T14:13:36+00:00
