---
title: use boost::container::flat_map instead of std::unordered_map for suba…
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5370
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels:
- enhancement
- pending review
- important
- in progress
created_at: '2019-03-29T20:12:57+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-02-18T21:51:02+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
…ddresses

This cuts memory usage by about half, insertion is about 50% faster,
and lookup, while about twice as slow, is dwarfed by the accompanying
derive_subaddress_public_key anyway.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2019-03-29T22:20:49+00:00
I would add a `static_assert(std::is_pod<crypto::type>(), "type must be pod");` -  the extra compile time should be minimal.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-29T22:30:15+00:00
Do a `reserve` call on `new_elements` before the loop. I would also change this type from `std::vector` to `boost::container::flat_map<crypto::public_key, cryptonote::subaddress_index>::sequence_type`. See below for the latter change.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-29T22:37:39+00:00
I see no reason to do a `std::sort` + `ordered_unique_range_t` flag, `flat_map` can do that internally. The exception would be if `push_back` calls were replaced with `insert(lower_bound(...), ...);`. Doing a correct insertion+sort might result in more CPU via element moves (`memcpy`); transitioning to that would be a tricky tradeoff.

Also, if changed to `sequence_type`, another subtle optimization can be done:
```c++
if (m_subaddresses.empty())
  m_subaddresses.adopt_sequence(std::move(new_elements));
else
  m_subaddresses.insert(new_elements.begin(), new_elements.end());
```
The first branch transfers ownership of the buffer to `m_subaddresses` without allocations.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-29T22:40:53+00:00
Again, sort and ordered unique tag not necessary. And this code doesn't actually verify uniqueness before the call.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-29T22:41:53+00:00
It should be possible to get binary compatibility so that yet-another-version isn't required.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-29T22:53:08+00:00
Drop sort again. Use `sequence_type` and `adopt_sequence`.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-29T22:56:50+00:00
Is this not binary compatible with the `boost::unordered_map` serialization?

## vtnerd | 2019-03-29T23:03:14+00:00
When is this serialization scheme used? I thought the wallet only used boost serialization and not the epee variant?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T00:51:59+00:00
Doing this speeds it up a LOT compared to adding one by one. I can't recall whether I tried that insert version, I'll try it.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T00:53:01+00:00
Possibly. Why ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T00:53:17+00:00
I don't think it's used now.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T01:02:37+00:00
Lots slower. So much I ^Ced. This is my test code:

<pre>
#if 0
  std::sort(v.begin(), v.end());
  boost::container::ordered_unique_range_t tag;
  flat_map.insert(tag, v.begin(), v.end());
#else
  flat_map.insert(v.begin(), v.end());
#endif
</pre>

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T01:03:44+00:00
Does it need to ? It was saved from a flat_map from a file encrypted with your key.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T01:06:04+00:00
You still need the different loading code though, no ?

## vtnerd | 2019-03-30T02:55:06+00:00
Yeah, I thought about this while away from my computer. The problem is that the map cannot "touch" the iterator range, and therefore has to search over the entire internal vector every insert instead of a decreasing range.

The `adopt_sequence` method should be faster in all cases, and doing a pre-sort should~n't~ be helpful.

EDIT: A pre-sort allows you skip a uniqueness check within boost. I _think_ the uniqueness check can be safely skipped here.

EDIT2: The actual implementation of the insert differs from my description, but if you peek a the source you can see why the sorted version is faster - less shifting of elements within the internal vector.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-30T03:00:03+00:00
The code for version change may not be necessary if both data structures have the same binary input/output. Its a matter of loading the same data into a different C++ data structure.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-30T03:02:58+00:00
I don't see why if the data output is the same.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-30T03:10:11+00:00
One thing I forgot to mention - serialization load functions typically overwrite the existing container value. This is merging in the values into the existing container. Usage of `adopt_sequence` without the `sort`, would do a replace and uniqueness check in one (I looked at the implementation this time, instead of that insert goof).

## vtnerd | 2019-03-30T03:11:18+00:00
I meant to comment on the uniqueness below, not here. `std::unordered_map` will guarantee uniqueness. However, it does seem like the extra version isn't needed.



## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T09:32:04+00:00
Looks like the adopt_sequence was added in 1.65, so I'd rather not use it given the inserts are typically one off and faster than the current anyway.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T09:38:20+00:00
OK, I see now, since the sort/insert is in the serialize override. I'll try that.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T09:39:02+00:00
OK. Looking at both, I think it's binary compatible indeed.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T11:23:21+00:00
Looks like it's not. The obvious difference was size_t/uint32_t, but after changing that it's still not. If you fancy working out why feel free, but I'm not spending more time on that since the gain is just saving a few lines.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-30T19:54:50+00:00
Too bad this was a recent addition to Boost. I don't know what you meant by "faster than the current anyway" - handing the memory buffer to `flat_map` is the fastest possible way to initialize the data structure. 

## vtnerd | 2019-03-30T19:57:22+00:00
The `uint32_t` was a good catch, it needs to be `size_t` here for correctness.

> but I'm not spending more time on that since the gain is just saving a few lines.

Unfortunately, I should've read Boost code before assuming its implementation. Boost is storing the bucket count too, despite it not being strictly necessary, and there is no such concept with `flat_map`.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T20:16:31+00:00
I meant insertion in the flat_map is faster than the current std::unordered_map insertion is.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T20:21:17+00:00
That should not matter, since monero code implements that AFAICT.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-30T21:19:09+00:00
These comments were me hoping that the binary serialization format was the same for `unordered_map`. It looks like your last response was about reducing the copy-pasted sort code.

One thing I (just) noticed is that a custom lambda does not need to be supplied for sort. Instead, `std::sort(vector.begin(), vector.end(), m_subaddresses.value_comp());` will do a proper sort on `std::pair<..>` objects.  `flat_map::value_comp()` does the same thing as [`std::map::value_comp()`](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/container/map/value_compare). The advantage is that this updates automatically with the `m_subaddresses` definition, and is basically what `flat_map` is using internally.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T21:54:15+00:00
Do you mean key_comp ?

## vtnerd | 2019-03-30T23:04:35+00:00
I don't understand this response given the context of my last comment. This appears to be `std::size_t` now or - ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-30T23:15:59+00:00
Yes, I changed it to size_t, but this was not enough to make it binary compatible. My comment was "inclusion of bucket count should not matter since monero uses its own code to serialize AFAIK".

## vtnerd | 2019-03-30T23:39:45+00:00
I was not concise in that comment.

The `boost::serialization` code for `std::unordered_map` writes out a bucket count to the stream. That is one of the reasons for the binary incompatibility. No such concept (bucket count) exists with `flat_map`, so making it binary compatible is a stretch.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-31T00:51:09+00:00
I mentioned this somewhere else (incorrectly for that chunk of code) - the current implementation for serialization loading is relying on user input to guarantee uniqueness. Using this:
```c++
x.clear();
x.reserve(sz);
pair_type e{};
while (sz--)
{
    a & e.first;
    a & e.second;
    x.insert(x.end(), e);
}
```
will filter out duplicates from user input and is ~27.5% faster (100,000 random public keys in a `std::stringstream` using release/-Ofast with gcc 7.3 and me hopefully negating CPU burstiness weirdness) than the current implementation. The only time the above version would be slower is if an alternative output serialization function put the elements _not_ in-order.

The reason for the performance increase is because if the archive elements are in-order, the loop becomes `vector.insert(vector.end(), e);` internally within Boost (with some checks/branches in case the assumption is invalid). This removes the temporary buffer, sorting/searching, and extra element `memcpy`. `boost::serialization` attempts a similar optimization with `std::map`.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-31T01:12:17+00:00
I meant `value_comp()`. The name is unfortunate - [the value is never inspected](http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/map/map/value_comp/) ... **but**, I just tested this and it looks like a bug until Boost 1.66. The template parameters are flipped for the public function but not the internally used version. So its usage will never compile on older Boost releases. Oh bother.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-31T01:23:45+00:00
So you're saying it's not using the code in src/common/unordered_containers_boost_serialization.h, lines 41 to 67, but some other code ? Because the code here does not save a bucket count AFAICT.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-31T01:24:14+00:00
OK, that looks nice, I'll push that, thanks.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-31T03:01:00+00:00
I wasn't aware of this specialization, I thought the Boost default was being used.

When you tested compatibility, did you do a direct comparison of the binary outputs? The two will differ - `unordered_map` has undefined order whereas `flat_map` is guaranteed to be in-order. I did a quick test (directly, not via the entire wallet2 specification), and storing `unordered_map` can be loaded by `flat_map`. There is one catch - if you use my `x.insert(x.end(), e)` technique, the first load will be slower since the elements are not in-order until the next store.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-31T10:02:36+00:00
No, I loaded a cache saved with unordered_map with the flat_map code.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-31T10:08:58+00:00
It might be saving the type first. That'd explain both why it loads for you and not for me.

## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T15:14:48+00:00
What's the purpose of replacing a return value for a reference-out parameter? It makes the code less readable.

## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T15:16:36+00:00
Won't this always be false because if index_minor + count was indeed greater than `std::numeric_limits<uint32_t>::max()` it would just wrap around?

You need to change `index_minor + count > 0xffffffff` to `index_minor > std::numeric_limits<uint32_t>::max() - count`

## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T15:17:59+00:00
`std::vector<spair_t>`

## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T15:18:38+00:00
NIT: Prefer STL algorithms over raw-loops (std::accumulate in the numeric header).

## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T15:20:09+00:00
Not a fan of magic numbers. Give 31 a descriptive name. Would make the code more newbie friendly.

## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T15:20:35+00:00
Is the default argument needed?

## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T15:21:12+00:00
I noticed you type-aliasing, but then not using the type alias on the immadiate next line. Why is that?

## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T15:37:34+00:00
Can't you do: `std::vector<pair_type> vector{ subaddresses.begin(), subaddresses.end() };` ?

## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T15:39:37+00:00
Maybe more cohesive if version <= 1, as done above.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-29T20:12:57+00:00
