---
title: Cryptonight variant 4 aka CryptonightR
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5126
author: SChernykh
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-02-04T18:07:23+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-03-04T10:10:30+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-03-04T10:10:30+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-03-04T10:10:30+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This is a proposal for the next Monero PoW algorithm. Please read [original discussion](https://github.com/SChernykh/CryptonightR/issues/1) before posting here.

### Random integer math modification

Division and square root are replaced with a sequence of random integer instructions:

OP|Description|Frequency|Comment
--|-----------|---------|-------
MUL|a\*b|40.05%|Many multiplications ensure high latency
ADD|a+b+C|11.88%|3-way addition with random constant
SUB|a-b|12.21%|b is always different from a
ROR|ror(a,b)|7.52%|Bit rotate right
ROL|rol(a,b)|5.57%|Bit rotate left
XOR|a^b|22.78%|b is always different from a

Program size is between 60 and 69 instructions, 63 instructions on average.

There are 9 registers named R0-R8. Registers R0-R3 are variable, registers R4-R8 are constant and can only be used as source register in each instruction. Registers R4-R8 are initialized with values from main loop registers on every main loop iteration.

All registers are 32 bit to enable efficient GPU implementation. It's possible to make registers 64 bit though - it's supported in miners below.

The random sequence changes every block. Block height is used as a seed for random number generator. This allows CPU/GPU miners to precompile optimized code for each block. It also allows to verify optimized code for all future blocks against reference implementation, so it'll be guaranteed safe to use in Monero daemon/wallet software.

An example of generated random math:
- https://github.com/SChernykh/CryptonightR/blob/master/CryptonightR/random_math.inl

Optimized CPU miner:
- [xmrig](https://github.com/SChernykh/xmrig/tree/CryptonightR)

Optimized GPU miner:
- [xmrig-amd](https://github.com/SChernykh/xmrig-amd/tree/CryptonightR)
- [xmrig-nvidia](https://github.com/SChernykh/xmrig-nvidia/tree/CryptonightR)

Pool software:
- [node-multi-hashing](https://github.com/SChernykh/node-multi-hashing/tree/feature-cryptonight_r)
- [node-cryptonight-hashing](https://github.com/MoneroOcean/node-cryptonight-hashing)

### Design choices

Instruction set is chosen from instructions that are efficient on CPUs/GPUs compared to ASIC: all of them except XOR are complex operations at logic circuit level and require O(logN) gate delay. These operations have been studied extensively for decades and modern CPUs/GPUs already have the best implementations.

SUB, XOR are never executed with the same operands to prevent degradation to zero. ADD is defined as a 3-way operation with random 32-bit constant to fix trailing zero bits that tend to accumulate after multiplications.

Code generator ensures that minimal required latency for ASIC to execute random math is at least **2.5 times higher** than what was needed for DIV+SQRT in CryptonightV2: current settings ensure latency equivalent to a chain of 15 multiplications while optimal ASIC implementation of DIV+SQRT has latency equivalent to a chain of 6 multiplications.

It also accounts for super-scalar and out of order CPUs which can execute more than 1 instruction per clock cycle. If ASIC implements random math circuit as simple in-order pipeline, it'll be hit with **further up to 1.5x slowdown**.

A number of simple checks is implemented to prevent algorithmic optimizations of the generated code. Current instruction mix also helps to prevent algebraic optimizations of the code. My tests show that generated C++ code compiled with all optimizations on is only 5% faster on average than direct translation to x86 machine code - this is synthetic test with just random math in the loop, but the actual Cryptonight loop is still dominated by memory access, so this number is needed to estimate the limits of possible gains for ASIC.

### Performance on CPU/GPU and ASIC

CryptonightR parameters were chosen to:
- have the same hashrate as CryptonightV2 on CPU/GPU
- have a bit smaller power consumption on CPU/GPU

Actual numbers (hashrate and power consumption for different CPUs and GPUs) are available [here](https://github.com/SChernykh/CryptonightR/issues/5).

ASIC will have to implement some simple and minimalistic instruction decoder and execution pipeline. While it's not impossible, it's much harder to create efficient out of order pipeline which can track all data dependencies and do more than 1 instruction per cycle. It will also have to use fixed clock cycle length, just like CPU, so for example XOR (single logic gate) won't be much faster anymore.

ASIC with external memory will have the same performance as they did on CryptonightV2, but they will require much more chip area to implement multiple CPU-like execution pipelines.
ASIC with on-chip memory will get 2.5-3.75 times slower due to increased math latency and randomness and they will also require more chip area.


# Discussion History
## tevador | 2019-02-04T21:49:51+00:00
Not sure if it makes a big difference, but the real latency of ROL/ROR on Intel is ~1 cycle ([reference](https://www.agner.org/optimize/blog/read.php?i=860#860)). 2 cycle latency is only for flags dependence.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-04T21:54:16+00:00
These are worst case numbers, so they are conservative. I ran a lot of tests before and found that a few random seeds produce slower than usual code when it has a lot of rotations. This is why I set it to 2 cycles for rotations and reduced rotations frequency.

## tevador | 2019-02-04T23:03:35+00:00
AFAIK bit fields are generally not very portable. There should be at least a `static_assert` to make sure `sizeof(V4_InstructionCompact) == 1`. But it's safer to implement it manually with shift/and.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-05T00:12:14+00:00
That looks like it'll give different hashes on big endian. Use SWAP64LE or SWAP64BE.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-05T00:15:12+00:00
threatened ? Treated maybe ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-05T00:24:45+00:00
This code seems to be deterministic based on the height, so we can know know what the program for height 2e6 will be way in advance. I saw the rationale for height seed, so a GPU can get precompiled code in advance. However, using the previous block's hash also accomplishes this, while keeping everything unknown till shortly before the time. Would this be better ? It's unclear whether knowing all this in advance could be exploited somehow.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-05T00:29:49+00:00
Since the shift count is the full size of the register in V4_EXEC, ROL and ROR are really the same thing (or, rol eax, 28 is the same as ror eax, 4).

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-05T00:39:02+00:00
I suspect most runs require the the same amount of calls, as the data needed seems fairly predictable. I kinda expect this code building part is not really time sensitive though, is it ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-05T00:40:56+00:00
You probably also want ADD a,b then SUB a,b and vice versa.
I also don't quite understand this. you seem to be storing only 8 bits of the source register here, is that because you don't care about false positives ?

## mobilepolice | 2019-02-05T00:50:25+00:00
What's the risk to seeding off of a previous blocks hash in the event of a re-org? I'm trying to think of the ways that can go wrong, but I'm not sure I can come up with anything.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-05T06:19:47+00:00
I store "register data revision" (change counter) here, so it can't be more than 256 because programs don't have that many instructions.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-05T06:21:21+00:00
Yes, it's implementation-defined in C, but I haven't seen modern compilers that don't pack it in a single byte. I'll rewrite it anyway. Can't use `static_assert` because it's available only in C++.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-05T06:21:37+00:00
Ok

## SChernykh | 2019-02-05T06:21:46+00:00
Yes, a typo.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-05T06:25:09+00:00
Previous block hash makes pre-compilation impossible because it's unknown until new block arrives, so GPUs will be halted every time. Knowing programs in advance won't help ASICs much because there are just too many different programs (one for each block). They'll be able to precompile too, but it won't give more than 5% speedup (see first post).

Plus, using the block height makes it possible to just check the code generator for all future block heights and guarantee that it doesn't crash/freze etc. and produces working random programs. I think it's better to play safe here.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-05T06:28:35+00:00
Yes, but it still adds a bit more logic to ASIC. This also why I only use one opcode for them.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-05T06:30:16+00:00
Code generator generates first 10,000,000 random programs in 30 seconds, so it's really fast - 3 microseconds on average.

## tevador | 2019-02-05T08:38:30+00:00
You can do "static assert" in C like this:

```c
enum {
	assert1 = 1 / (sizeof(V4_InstructionCompact) == 1)
};
```

## vtnerd | 2019-02-05T19:01:42+00:00
If willing to assume C11 -> https://en.cppreference.com/w/c/language/_Static_assert

## vtnerd | 2019-02-05T19:03:29+00:00
What about an ASIC strategy in which the design was intended only to work with certain block heights? I'm not yet familiar enough with this proposal to know whether this is viable.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-05T19:08:52+00:00
Generated random programs are quite similar and each program has all possible instructions in it, so if ASIC can run one of them, it can run all.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-05T19:26:25+00:00
I rewrote it using bit-wise operations instead of bit fields.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-06T12:12:34+00:00
"Previous block hash makes pre-compilation impossible" does not apply if the hash is the one two steps back.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-06T12:16:18+00:00
Yes, but it'll require bigger refactoring because it's not available in cn_slow_hash (and functions calling it) now. Pool software will also require refactoring to support it. Block height is convenient because it's readily available with existing code both in monerod and in pool software.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-06T12:27:21+00:00
Just a 6 bit sub AFAICT. Something like sal/sar instead would at least change the op a bit. Or bswap also looks to be simple and latency 1. Anyway, you're the expert here so I won't say more.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-06T15:30:06+00:00
That also needs a SWAP32LE.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-06T15:31:28+00:00
If this ends with the retry count exceeded, I guess you just end up with a smaller program, but it seems to otherwise work, right ? Did you check whether any of the 2 (or 10) million programs you tried end up in that case ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-06T15:37:09+00:00
A ror by small numbers can be cancelled by a mul with a value with as many 0 bits on the right, ie
ror eax, 1
if eax&1 is 0 can be merged with mul eax, 2 to give nop, and with mul eax, 4 to give mul eax,2 (didn't try writing those down, so the actual cases may be wrong).
Since you try to avoid such "collapsible" cases above, I think this is worth point out.

Same for mul eax, 2 followed by mul eax, 3 -> collpases to mul eax,6.

Since half the inputs are block level constants, it might be possible to optimize some crcuitry here ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-06T15:38:42+00:00
Doesn't check for two rors in sequence either. Or maybe not even in sequence: ror eax, 1 ;mul ebx, ecx; ror, eax, 3 -> ror eax, 4, mul ebx, ecx, and you don't have an eax depedency for the next insn either. May or may not be significant in practice.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-06T17:02:29+00:00
It happens in 0.2% cases, see the last comment in the outer loop.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-06T17:03:37+00:00
Registers R4-R7 are not block level constants, they change on every inner loop iteration. They are basically taken from Cryptonight main loop variables.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-06T17:05:49+00:00
Check `rotated` array in the code, it's used to prevent this specific case - two rotations of the same register in a row, even if they are separated by other independent instructions.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-06T18:36:44+00:00
This loop does not use rotated AFAICT. That said, it will not yield two rors in a row by construction anyway, so my comment is moot.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-06T18:36:56+00:00
OK, I had misunderstood that.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-07T17:26:03+00:00
Trivially, but ...

could you drop a comment here that its critical that `data_index >= sizeof(data)` during initialization so that the remainder bytes are initialized to non-zero. Its probably obvious, but any Debian-type dev might alter this if copying ... 

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T00:57:49+00:00
This loop doesn't look guaranteed to terminate - several branches do not make progress towards the loop condition and there is no guarantee that progress will made on subsequent iterations. The probability should extremely low, BUT having a non-deterministic (or at least not-easy-to-evaluate loop due to blake2 hashing) seems risky as well.

Should there be a global cap on iterations (as unfortunate as that may be)?

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T00:59:51+00:00
Should `ALU_COUNT` be replaced by the number of `dest` registers? In the unlikely case that multiply instructions are never chosen, the primary instruction selection loop could end up producing a max of `TOTAL_LATENCY * 4` instructions.

Or alternatively, should both the ALU/ASIC loops abort after 70 instructions are selected (which is the maximum number that will be executed anyway)? Then this array could also be a fixed size of 70.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T01:12:44+00:00
* Should this be declared before the `do` loop? It doesn't seem like it should be reset after an iteration.
* What is the rationale for these initial values? It looks like it prevents the self-multiply instruction from being the first instruction for each destination register.
* Initializing to `-1` has implementation defined bit values - the type should likely be `unsigned` to prevent (unlikely) portability issues.
* Registers 4-7 are always considered the same "source".

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T01:13:22+00:00
Should `inst_data` be inspected here? The equivalent of NOPs can be added here too ... ?

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T02:17:56+00:00
This would also increase the latency of a CPU/GPU, so whats the advantage?

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T02:28:27+00:00
Is this why a constant is used in addition? To prevent a `ADD, SUB` case which results in a `NOP`? Doesn't this happen in the case where the constant is zero? And even when the constant is non-zero, couldn't such a sequence be optimized further? i.e. `ADD(A, B, 10), SUB(A, B)` -> `ADD(A, 10)`.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T04:19:20+00:00
What additional logic needs to be added for the other rotate? Wouldn't the additional logic only need to be in the prepping stage? Which brings me to the next point - why not drop one of the rotates in the execution switch to compress the logic? Seems like it would _really_ be tough for the compiler to optimize that one.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T04:32:35+00:00
`memcpy` here for portability. GCC/Clang will generate identical ASM to this invalid aliasing version iff the platform supports mis-aligned moves. Or is this somehow guaranteed alignment?

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T04:33:12+00:00
Well I guess funky aliasing is the norm.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T04:54:48+00:00
More aliasing/portability fun with `data` -> `memcpy`.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T06:17:28+00:00
I have `num_retries` that is used to prevent this. And I've tested this code for all block heights < 10,000,000.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T06:18:53+00:00
No, it never produces more than `ALU_COUNT` instructions for each cycle because it has to find a free ALU for current cycle before adding each new instruction.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T06:21:39+00:00
It's usually not more than asic_latency + 6-8 cycles.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T06:27:53+00:00
Those branches that don't change `num_retries` trigger with < 50% probability (combined)

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T06:29:32+00:00
It's also never more than 69 instructions for block heights < 10,000,000 while this array has space for 135 instructions.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T06:34:42+00:00
- No, the outer `do` loop is for generating the whole program. It runs more than once only if the first generated program is too short.
- Initial values must be different for R0-R3, this is the only requirement. I should probably fix them to enable any instruction as first
- Will change to uint32_t
- Yes, this is by design, see comment above

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T06:37:02+00:00
It's not worth it. The final sequence (ROR->MUL->MUL) can only have the first ROR optimized if we don't use `inst_data` to prevent this, so at best 1 cycle can be optimized here. I prefer simpler code here.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T06:37:58+00:00
And we have to guarantee the minimal theoretical time required to run the generated random program, otherwise we'll have very easy code sequences sometimes.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T06:41:14+00:00
Random constant is used to fix zero bits that accumulate after multiplications. The case when add -> sub can be optimized to single add is quite rare, it's not worth additional complexity of the code generator. We're talking about reducing possible 5% speedup from optimizing compiler if we fix all thinkable cases here, not just this one. 5% is not much already.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T19:15:41+00:00
> The final sequence (ROR->MUL->MUL) can only have the first ROR optimized if we don't use `inst_data` to prevent this, so at best 1 cycle can be optimized here.

I don't follow. The instruction sequence generated here isn't fixed. So what does `ROR->MUL->MUL` have to do with your rebuttal? And how is "at best 1 cycle can be optimized here" verifiable?

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T19:24:53+00:00
> It's usually not more than asic_latency + 6-8 cycles.

Is this suggesting that this loop typically adds 6-8 cycles of random code? Verifying that claim is a bit rough, but probably doable ...

> And we have to guarantee the minimal theoretical time required to run the generated random program, otherwise we'll have very easy code sequences sometimes.

If the minimum desired latency for an ASIC is too low, this generates more instructions with an 40+% skew towards multiplication. According to the logic within this PR, an ASIC has lower latency with such instructions. So this bottom portion is aggressively selecting instructions that are "slower" on a CPU, and is no longer taking the CPU execution ports into consideration. I'm not seeing a valid justification for this loop.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T19:25:07+00:00
This second loop `while ((asic_latency...` generates ROR->MUL->MUL sequence to achieve required latency for ASIC. Only the first ROR can be optimized if the previous instruction for the same destination register was also rotation.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T19:27:16+00:00
Crud, hold on this loop generates code differently ...

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T19:30:34+00:00
Actually, the skew towards MUL is even heavier in this second loop. Why? Take into consideration what I said two comments above this.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T19:30:41+00:00
ROR has latency of 2 cycles only on Intel in some extreme cases (several rotations in a row). ROR always has 1 cycle latency on Ryzen/Bulldozer, and it also has 1 cycle latency on Intel in this specific case (ror->mul->mul), so it's the same additional latency both for CPU and ASIC in this final sequence.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-08T19:32:36+00:00
Yes I didn't inspect this loop closely enough yesterday. Although interested to see responses to a few other questions.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T19:36:40+00:00
> Actually, the skew towards MUL is even heavier in this second loop. Why?

This skew is by design. MUL is the preferred instruction of the whole random sequence, other instructions are just added to the mix to prevent optimizations of multiply sequences. Multiplication is basically the most optimized instruction on both CPU and GPU from latency point of view.

Hmm, maybe not on GPU, but CPU latency is the closest to possible multiplication latency on ASIC. GPUs can handle it thanks to their overall computing power.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-08T21:42:28+00:00
> Initializing to `-1` has implementation defined bit values - the type should likely be `unsigned` to prevent (unlikely) portability issues.

On the second thought - do you even know modern CPU architecture which doesn't use two's complement representation for negative numbers?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-09T13:14:57+00:00
I'm reasonably sure this code would not work on non 2's complement anyway, given it subs them rols, etc.

## hyc | 2019-02-09T13:39:40+00:00
There's a proposal to mandate that integers are twos-complement in C++
http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2018/p0907r4.html

I don't think there's a corresponding proposal for C yet. There are still ones-complement machines in existence, but I don't think we'll ever see anyone using them for Monero nodes. (https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12276957/are-there-any-non-twos-complement-implementations-of-c)

## xiphon | 2019-02-10T02:01:51+00:00
`-128 <= C <= 127` means C is an 8-bit constant. Though it is declared and used as a 32-bit unsigned.
https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5126/files#diff-841dcad45a1a1f90a44e2f76be84872fR56
https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5126/files#diff-841dcad45a1a1f90a44e2f76be84872fR364

## vtnerd | 2019-02-10T03:39:40+00:00
> ROR has latency of 2 cycles only on Intel in some extreme cases (several rotations in a row). ROR always has 1 cycle latency on Ryzen/Bulldozer, and it also has 1 cycle latency on Intel in this specific case (ror->mul->mul), so it's the same additional latency both for CPU and ASIC in this final sequence.

I was asking about the general skew towards MUL, and even bigger skew in the bottom loop. Which you did discuss after that ...

> This skew is by design. MUL is the preferred instruction of the whole random sequence, other instructions are just added to the mix to prevent optimizations of multiply sequences. Multiplication is basically the most optimized instruction on both CPU and GPU from latency point of view.
>
> Hmm, maybe not on GPU, but CPU latency is the closest to possible multiplication latency on ASIC. GPUs can handle it thanks to their overall computing power.

If viewed pessimistically, there are 4 "root" dependency chains being shoved through a single MUL port on a CPU core. A specially designed chip could have multiple pipelines for handling this set of instructions. Ultimately the problem I have is that this design is fairly complex and design choices are not as "obvious" as the original cryptonote design.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-10T03:42:01+00:00
Its still concerning having a chunk of code - which can go through unforeseen maintenance changes - to have probabilistic termination. It wouldn't seem like tracking this would be that difficult. `num_retries` could be incremented in the other branches and weighted in the existing case for instance.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-10T03:43:07+00:00
Again, I guess this is acceptable because this won't use that many block heights? A check for height after adding an instruction would have minimal impact and could be used to abort the entire thing anyway.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-10T03:45:45+00:00
> * No, the outer `do` loop is for generating the whole program. It runs more than once only if the first generated program is too short.

This didn't answer my original question. I know what the `do while` loop was doing, I wanted to know why tracking prior instructions was skipped in some situations.

> On the second thought - do you even know modern CPU architecture which doesn't use two's complement representation for negative numbers?

I'm not sure why it matters, making the type `unsigned` is portable now and doesn't affect anything else in the code.

EDIT: This might need to be `uint32` to be completely portable now that I think about it. Although, that meant `int` had two portability issues actually.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-10T03:53:31+00:00
Presumably you meant 5% speedup in this portion, and not the entire algorithm (which should be dominated by cache/memory accesses)?

I don't quite like this argument, the CPU is pegged (more power) while custom designs might be able to save further power by having the same latencies with less silicon. Although any JIT-like approach with LLVM should do the trick here too.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-10T08:04:23+00:00
Yes, this is an old comment. It's actually a 32-bit constant.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-10T08:11:32+00:00
> there are 4 "root" dependency chains being shoved through a single MUL port on a CPU core. A specially designed chip could have multiple pipelines for handling this set of instructions.

Single MUL port on CPU can start new multiplication each cycle and this is taken into account by code generator. ASIC can of course do all independent instructions in parallel and this is also taken into account, which results in CPU latency being 6-8 cycles more than theoretical minimal latency for ASIC.

So ASIC will take at least 45 cycles to execute the program and CPU will take 51-53 cycles on average. But CPU usually takes around 80 cycles to run the rest of Cryptonight loop, so this difference doesn't play any role.

This design is complex only because I have to simulate how CPU works. If I just generated random code from a stream of data, difference between CPU and optimized ASIC would have been a lot more than 6-8 cycles in the end.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-10T08:16:31+00:00
5% speedup was in my tests where I had only random math in the loop and compared optimizing C++ compiler with direct translation to x86 code. The actual Cryptonight loop doesn't get any speedup from optimizing compiler on CPU because it's still dominated by the main memory-hard loop. 

Custom designs will of course will have random math as limiting factor and will have optimizing compiler to assist them whenever possible.

I don't say in the description that ASIC is impossible. It's possible and can be still be 3-4 times more efficient per watt. But this algorithm is not the final code, it's only for the next 6 months.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-10T08:19:17+00:00
I agree we need to have a guarantee of loop termination. `num_retries` was originally used for the final few instructions to fill in all ALUs on CPU, so this global counter will have to be separate, I'll add it to guarantee loop termination.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-10T08:22:43+00:00
I don't quite get it, what additional check do you want here?

## SChernykh | 2019-02-10T08:27:44+00:00
> This didn't answer my original question. I know what the `do while` loop was doing, I wanted to know why tracking prior instructions was skipped in some situations.

The answer to your original question: no, `inst_data` shouldn't be declared before the `do` loop. I don't want previous generated program that was scrapped for some reason to influence the next attempt.

What "tracking prior instruction" do you even talk about? Did you see `code_size = 0;` shortly after `inst_data` declaration?

## SChernykh | 2019-02-10T08:33:00+00:00
> This might need to be `uint32` to be completely portable now that I think about it. Although, that meant `int` had two portability issues actually.

What portability issues?
- Two's complement: not an issue in reality
- Signed overflow: look at the code and see that it never happens.

Don't be picky.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-10T08:48:44+00:00
I've made it uint32_t since it doesn't change the code logic anyway, but can you elaborate? Maybe I don't know C/C++ standard well enough.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-10T09:05:55+00:00
It never did more than 176 iterations for first 10,000,000 heights, so I added a check at 256 iterations.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-11T06:04:39+00:00
To check for 69/70 instructions and then to immediately return.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-11T06:09:58+00:00
The standard states that `int`/`unsigned` must be 16- bits+ (not sure if there is cap) and does not specify binary format for negative numbers.

## hyc | 2019-02-11T06:25:17+00:00
As noted earlier https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5126#discussion_r255299070 the case for other-than-twos-complement isn't worth worrying about.

## vtnerd | 2019-02-11T06:27:14+00:00
There are multiple ports per CPU core for shifting, addition and division, which is why I've been probing on the bias towards multiply instructions. The choice is non-intuitive, and I'm still not seeing an _obvious_ advantage to that decision.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-11T07:24:45+00:00
I'll try to explain it from the different angle. Multiplication is the complex operation that requires O(logN) gate delay both for ASIC and CPU. They both would use similar implementation - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wallace_tree

The same implementation guarantees that ASIC won't be much faster than CPU here. Addition, subtraction have the same property - O(logN) gate delay: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brent%E2%80%93Kung_adder , but this delay is usually 3 times smaller than multiplication.

It would require 3 times more instructions to achieve the same execution delay, and CPU would run into instruction decoding stalls with such long programs and slow down unnecessarily. Moreover, 3 times more instruction where addition/subtraction are the most common enable much more opportunities for algebraic optimizations.

> There are multiple ports per CPU core for shifting, addition and division

We don't need (and don't want) high parallelism from generated code, because it's very easy for ASIC to outperform CPU in this area. Generated random code usually runs at 1.1-1.5 instructions per cycle on CPU, even with current bias towards multiplications, and this is enough. The main requirement for generated code is latency, not the total amount of instructions. The single port for multiplication can still start 1 multiplication every cycle, so it's possible to have 3 independent multiplications in flight at every moment. It's good enough when we only have 4 independent registers that can change.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-11T07:32:55+00:00
An example of algebraic optimization: `ADD(A, B) -> ADD(A, B)` can be optimized into `ADD(A, B*2)` where multiplication by 2 is simple shift. Two times lower latency here. Yes, compiler for CPU can also do this, but these optimizations make it impossible to guarantee latency for every generated program.

The similar sequence of multiplications `MUL(A, B) -> MUL(A, B)` can't be optimized for lower latency because `B^2=MUL(B,B) -> MUL(A, B^2)` has the same execution latency. Multiplication is more resistant to algebraic optimizations.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-11T07:38:27+00:00
One more problem with a bias towards additions and other simple instructions: longer programs that run at 2.5-3 instructions per cycle don't leave room for the rest of Cryptonight main loop which uses the same execution ports (it has only 1 multiplication and a lot of simple instructions otherwise), so it'll slow down 20-50% on CPU, but not on ASIC.

## SChernykh | 2019-02-11T09:18:33+00:00
That is a good idea. I've added a check that generated code never has more than 70 instructions (without final RET).

## hyc | 2019-02-12T12:53:34+00:00
This needs to be `#elif defined(_MSC_VER)` otherwise it causes a warning. Same on line 75.


## MonadMonAmi | 2019-02-13T15:01:52+00:00
I suggest to use `int8_t*`

## SChernykh | 2019-02-15T16:20:47+00:00
It won't change anything. This pointer is passed to memcpy which is declared as `void * memcpy ( void * destination, const void * source, size_t num );`, so pointer type doesn't matter here.

# Action History
- Created by: SChernykh | 2019-02-04T18:07:23+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-03-04T10:10:30+00:00
