---
title: 'core_tests: faster'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5821
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-08-19T14:18:43+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-04-03T13:48:10+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2019-10-08T15:03:28+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Much faster.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2019-08-19T20:03:26+00:00
This change only speeds up tests, at the cost of adding more runtime code to one of the most critical code paths. `getenv` is likely a linear search against the environment and is done for every `cn_slow_hash` call.

Did you run callgrind or similar to get instruction count additions here? I don't think its a huge amount, but yikes.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T21:33:20+00:00
I did not, but this is called once before 500k loops (though the loop bound changes from an immedite to a variable), and once it's called once, it keeps the value in a static. I don't doubt it will be lost in the noise.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-22T00:13:41+00:00
As stated, I'm against adding more complications to this code path simply for increasing testing performance, since this is fairly critical.

Anyway - the static should be `std::atomic<size_t>` to remove platform dependent behavior (tearing) on reads/writes. Otherwise, the thread safety _seems_ iffy but is correct AFAIK (multiple threads should always compute the same value). `std::atomic<std::size_t> i{0}` will initialize at compile-time just as this code is doing.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-22T00:49:41+00:00
I forgot this was a C file -

Looks like there is already platform dependent `static` in this file - I guess it hasn't bitten yet. Although its a confusing case to debug if it does trigger. The read/write will _probably_ be atomic since `size_t` is usually paired with the processor word size. C11 atomic libs exist, but the interface is a bit more clunky.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-22T01:13:38+00:00
Removed. nvm, that's what you already said.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-09-12T12:44:51+00:00
How about I add #ifndef BUILD_TAG ? That way people using the release binaries don't have that code in, saving the epsilon when hashing.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-09-12T13:28:23+00:00
Like what I've just pushed.

## mj-xmr | 2021-04-03T13:48:09+00:00
IMO it would not hurt anybody if this was defaulted to be tested with an undefined MONERO_FAST_POW, and left for the individual user to enable it locally at their own will.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T14:18:43+00:00
- Closed at: 2019-10-08T15:03:28+00:00
