---
title: 'MMS: Use chans instead of normal addresses for auto-config'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5778
author: rbrunner7
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-07-28T09:26:05+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-08-21T20:31:27+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-08-21T20:31:27+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-08-21T20:31:26+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Using the Bitmessage mechanism of *chans* instead of normal addresses as the basis for the auto-config mechanism of the MMS has advantages:

They are faster because no initial key exchange is needed - everybody who knows the chan name knows already the key (or better said, can derive the key from the chan name).

Especially in connection with the PyBitmessage app that the MMS uses chans have another advantage over normal addresses: It's possible to delete them manually if anything goes wrong and the MMS has no chance to delete them automatically.

Just for completeness' sake it should be noted that one should not bring this change into service exactly in the middle of an already-running auto-config process.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T16:48:09+00:00
That looks like std::string chan_name = epee::string_tools::pod_to_hex(hash);

Also, does it need a salt ? luigi might have an opinion.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T16:48:50+00:00
I believe this is taking a reference to a temporary. Though I have some vague recollection that modern C++ makes something similar OK, so that might be it ?

## rbrunner7 | 2019-08-19T18:26:53+00:00
Thanks, I will use the `pod_to_hex` method, overlooked that one.

About salting: Looks a bit like overkill to me, as those chan names do not appear in public anywhere, only the PyBitmessage instances of two signers get to see them.

Plus two computers would have to come up with an identical salt value independently, i.e. without any communication between them - right now I lack a good idea how to do this ...

## rbrunner7 | 2019-08-19T18:29:10+00:00
Oh, all those possible pitfalls of C++.

With the use of `pod_to_hex` the reference will vanish and get replaced by a direct expression, so problem circumvented.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T21:37:19+00:00
I meant a static salt particular to this code so that hashing the same thing in different contexts don't give the same result, like, say:

```
    static key ecdhHash(const key &k)
    {
        char data[38];
        rct::key hash;
        memcpy(data, "amount", 6);
        memcpy(data + 6, &k, sizeof(k));
        cn_fast_hash(hash, data, sizeof(data));
        return hash;
    }
```

It might indeed be overkill. I'll ping luigi to ask. 


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T22:19:03+00:00
From IRC:
<@luigi1111w> moneromooo it's probably fine, but it's very low cost to implement, so I'd be in favor of including it anyway

## rbrunner7 | 2019-08-20T17:57:26+00:00
I see. Done, because indeed easy.

# Action History
- Created by: rbrunner7 | 2019-07-28T09:26:05+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-08-21T20:31:26+00:00
