---
title: 'simplewallet: warn if invalid default ring size is set and actually ignore
  the setting'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5874
author: stoffu
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-08-29T06:40:31+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-09-14T18:19:24+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-09-14T18:19:23+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-09-14T18:19:23+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-29T10:35:10+00:00
Can you explain why this part ? It seems a bit counter productive )ie, you've got to have a daemon to ask for fork info, and we'll never be at less than 8 anyway.

## stoffu | 2019-08-30T09:18:01+00:00
The original code
```c++
    if (ring_size != 0 && ring_size != DEFAULT_MIX+1)
      message_writer() << tr("WARNING: this is a non default ring size, which may harm your privacy. Default is recommended.");
    else if (ring_size == DEFAULT_MIX)
      message_writer() << tr("WARNING: from v8, ring size will be fixed and this setting will be ignored.");
```
was made in https://github.com/monero-project/monero/commit/5ffb2ff9b7c301eda5811a939c705f26627c4735 where fixed ring size was introduced, but the network was still on v7. I overlooked this point when I was reviewing the PR #4219, but now I find the original code doesn't make sense, because the `else if (ring_size == DEFAULT_MIX)` branch will never be executed (`ring_size == DEFAULT_MIX` is already caught by `ring_size != DEFAULT_MIX+1`). So my proposed change here is intended to fix that logic so that a proper warning message will be shown depending on the consensus version.

But you're correct, this branching is no longer needed for Monero because it's already on v8. I made this patch along with the corresponding change in Aeon https://github.com/aeonix/aeon/pull/136/commits/78a1d4519b579eadf312839fa76e38bc05252ae9#diff-cb82e0aa6db499004305bf35f0eaafbc which is going to switch to fixed ring size in the upcoming fork. If you don't like this branch, I can remove it of course.


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-30T09:31:09+00:00
I see. The second branch should have been using DEFAULT_MIX+1.
The fork check might be broken without a daemon (ie, cold signing). If it still works, I'm OK either way. If it breaks, it needs removing.

## stoffu | 2019-09-01T00:20:58+00:00
> The second branch should have been using DEFAULT_MIX+1.

`ring_size==DEFAULT_MIX+1` means the appropriate value is specified; why would you want to display the warning message?

> The fork check might be broken without a daemon (ie, cold signing).

I don’t think your concern applies here, since this setting is relevant only for daemon-connected watch-only wallets initiating txes; offline full wallets don’t need to worry about what ring size to use.

# Action History
- Created by: stoffu | 2019-08-29T06:40:31+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-09-14T18:19:23+00:00
