---
title: Fix crash in view wallets decrypting the null spendkey
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5131
author: Doy-lee
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-02-08T06:02:01+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-03-04T19:28:22+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-03-04T19:28:21+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-03-04T19:28:21+00:00'
---

# Original Description
When trying to construct a transaction in a view-only wallet, wallet_keys_unlocker will decrypt the null spend key into account key's m_spend_secret_key that then gets passed to construct_tx_with_tx_key(). This then tries to generate a transaction using the decrypted null secret key and crashes in debug and fails in release mode.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-08T14:02:24+00:00
That's nop, it can be removed (same below).

Anyway, I think the check should be done in the ctor, here:

  if (!locked || w.is_unattended() || w.ask_password() != tools::wallet2::AskPasswordToDecrypt)


## Doy-lee | 2019-02-10T23:48:18+00:00
I'm not sure I particularly agree, wouldn't it be better in the wallet, so the wallet can never go into an invalid state, not the unlocker's responsibility?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-02-11T10:20:29+00:00
Encrypting and decrypting the null secret key is no different from encrypting and decrypting an actual secret key, with regards to the wallet being in an invalid state. If the use your patch, the caller is still able to encrypt it twice, or decrypt it more than it was encrypted, etc. The only way to have it in a valid state is to have the keys encrypted either once, or zero times. And in those two cases, the state is valid whether the spend key is null_skey or not.

Maybe I'm missing a particular case where this makes a difference though ?


## Doy-lee | 2019-02-11T23:46:58+00:00
No not in particular, just didn't understand the reasoning. But thinking at it in the way that decrypting the null key is a valid state is ok.

I've updated the commit, is that the desired fix?

# Action History
- Created by: Doy-lee | 2019-02-08T06:02:01+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-03-04T19:28:21+00:00
