---
title: 'cuprated: parse SOCKS5 proxy URL'
source_url: https://github.com/Cuprate/cuprate/pull/596
author: redsh4de
assignees: []
labels:
- A-p2p
- A-binaries
created_at: '2026-04-07T20:22:51+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-04-09T16:21:01+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
### What
Closes #579 

### Why
no unparsed string :)

### Where
cuprated, p2p

### How
Add a `TryFrom<String>` impl that parses "", "Tor", falls through to attempting to parse anything else as a SOCKS5 proxy url, checking if each part is correct
Also `From<ProxySettings>` for `String` for test compatibility

# Discussion History
## SyntheticBird45 | 2026-04-07T20:37:51+00:00
Could you do something like `url if s.starts_with(''socks5://')` instead ? So we can have a `_` matching and return an error on unknown scheme. 

## SyntheticBird45 | 2026-04-07T20:41:45+00:00
We do not have host resolution. Replace `host` with `ip` instead.

## SyntheticBird45 | 2026-04-07T20:45:23+00:00
Should use `trim` here I think.

## redsh4de | 2026-04-08T04:13:43+00:00
not necessary imo - since the values need to be in quotes, it would be a issue if the user types in " Tor " with the spaces in the config, user error

## redsh4de | 2026-04-08T05:15:58+00:00
Pushed with a TODO, after we are on Rust >1.95 would use the if let guard for a clean one-liner:
```rust
url if let Some(url) = url.strip_prefix("socks5://") => {
    ...
}
_ => Err(anyhow!("Unsupported proxy: '{s}'")),
```

## SyntheticBird45 | 2026-04-08T08:39:22+00:00
typos can happen fast. I'm more encouraging for small details that make user's life easier. If they accidentally left leading and trailing whitespaces i wouldn't want it to cause any confusion. If we're capable of understanding through mistakes then we should do it.

I can imagine many users frustrated with the following:
- `" socks5://user:pass@ip:port"` => `Error: Unsupported proxy:  socks5://user:pass@ip:port`
- `"socks5://user:pass@ip:port "` => `Error: invalid IPv4 socket address syntax`

I would even tend to say we should lowercase the whole input to support `tor` instead of `Tor`.
cc @Boog900 

## redsh4de | 2026-04-08T09:41:44+00:00
I agree with making the Tor matching case-insensitive 👍

My only nit with trimming here, despite it's benefits, is that it's not done anywhere else. ex: `network = " Mainnet"` with a leading whitespace fails as well

Everything in the config is loaded as is atm - so while it would be more user friendly, i believe trimming would be best applied for all config paths as a seperate PR, if needed

## SyntheticBird45 | 2026-04-09T16:20:19+00:00
So after discussion we both agree with you. So an issue will be open regarding trimming and *casing. marking as resolved. sorry for the wait

# Action History
- Created by: redsh4de | 2026-04-07T20:22:51+00:00
