---
title: 'wallet: fix mismatch between two concepts of "balance"'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5855
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-08-26T11:21:29+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-09-09T01:04:20+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-09-09T01:04:20+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-09-09T01:04:20+00:00'
---

# Original Description
One considers the blockchain, while the other considers the
blockchain and some recent actions, such as a recently created
transaction which spend some outputs, but isn't yet mined.

Typically, the "balance" command wants the latter, to reflect
the recent action, but things like proving ownership wants
the former.

This fixes a crash in get_reserve_proof, where a preliminary
check and the main code used two concepts of "balance".

# Discussion History
## stoffu | 2019-09-05T03:19:01+00:00
`td.m_spent` is equivalent to `is_spent(td, false)`. Some instances of `td.m_spent` are replaced like this while others are left unchanged, which feels confusing/arbitrary to me. What's the point of these changes?

## stoffu | 2019-09-05T03:21:38+00:00
Wrong parenthesis

## stoffu | 2019-09-05T03:30:41+00:00
This function with `strict` set to `true` is never used, so why bother changing the function signature instead of simply replacing `td.m_spent` with `is_spent(td, false)` (which is equivalent and seems unneeded to me)?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-09-05T11:16:41+00:00
Since the patch introduces a difference in semantics between "spent on the chain" and "spent on the chain or pending txes we just sent but are not yet mined", it seemed best to replace m_spent checks with is_spent to explicitely state which semantics we want, otherwise it seems dangerous. The ones that were not replaced are (1) the ones dealing with the m_spent value directly (ie, process_new_transaction, rescanning key images) and (2) the light wallet code, which I have no idea what its semantics are. I've just looked at the list and it seems fine to me. (1) can seen subjective though, so if you can point to specific instances I can check again.


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-09-05T11:18:57+00:00
Same reason as for the replacement argument above. It seems to be to be a more higher level piece of code and so it makes more sense to me to do it that way. If you disagree, I can remove that part though.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-26T11:21:29+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-09-09T01:04:20+00:00
