---
title: Dropping cppzmq dependency; adding some zmq utils
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5818
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-08-19T00:24:07+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-04-01T00:35:10+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-09-14T18:25:34+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-09-14T18:25:34+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This was adapted from the light wallet server patch after an issue was posted against cppzmq (its not explicitly listed as a dependency). This dependency on the cppzmq header is dropped, and instead `unique_ptr` and a few smaller functions are used. cppzmq requires the usage of exceptions for errors (and does something funky with EAGAIN), whereas this lets the caller decide between error codes and exceptions.

Also a few changes:
 * ZMQ server now has a max input message size of 10 MiB
 * ZMQ server handles a message sent in parts
 * ZMQ server no longer polls for shutdown every second, `zmq_term` is used to signal shutdown in blocking read/write calls.
 * ZMQ server now automatically retries on `EINTR` errors during read/write calls  (see above point).

This was verified with some unit tests and against the light-wallet-server.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-19T23:50:40+00:00
Should this not accumulate the >0 returns from all the zmq_msg_recv calls ? From the man page:
> The zmq_msg_recv() function shall return number of bytes in the message if successful.


## vtnerd | 2019-08-20T04:01:51+00:00
The caller is only checking for non-negative values, so theres no harm in dropping the information in its current use. But it might be bad conceptually. One issue is the possibility of overflow. Internally ZMQ clamps the value to `int::max`, meaning the return bytes are already dubious in edge cases. Which is why `zmq_msg_size(...)` has to be used. I'll duplicate that behavior here - accumulate but clamp to max value in the return.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2019-08-19T00:24:07+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-09-14T18:25:34+00:00
