---
title: Some extra epee parsing speedups
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5348
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-03-25T14:30:59+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-04-06T14:00:26+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-04-06T14:00:26+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-04-06T14:00:26+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2019-03-25T17:22:33+00:00
I recommend dropping the reference for the `boost::string_ref` parameters. With the exception of older ABIs, which should be the minority of users, this will use one additional register but internally is one less pointer indirection for the optimizer to handle.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-25T18:00:17+00:00
Inheritance should not be used in this situation. Any function that takes `boost::string_ref` by value will "slice away" the "backing" portion of the `std::string`, leaving dangling references. The other "fix" is to ensure every function call uses `boost::string_ref` by const reference which adds minor perf differences due to another pointer indirection. I strongly discourage this "fix"; existing uses of `boost::string_ref` need to be updated and every usage of `boost::string_ref`/`back_string_ref` _from every future commit_ needs to be manually inspected since the compiler will not generate errors with the invalid code.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-25T18:10:15+00:00
I don't think the interface should be changed at all, there's no benefit. When `take_string()` is called, if an allocation was skipped in here, it is then done externally. And the only case where `take_string()` is not called is for the name field in the epee storage class and that function is _always_ creating a `std::string` from that parameter.

The problem with this interface is that sometimes the return-value owns the memory, other times not. I'm not sure that the `backed_string_ref` design makes this clear. It is easy to spot if you look at  the implementation real quick, so I might be too pessimistic. But since there is never any savings of allocations in current usage, I don't see why the transition is helpful.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-25T18:16:13+00:00
This is why the entire interface makes no sense. A `backed_string_ref` was created to remove an allocation inside of `match_string2`, yet the changes are such that it will _always_ allocate a `std::string` right here or via `take_string()` in all other cases. There are no scenarios where the result of `match_string2` does not allocate a `std::string`, making the interface harder to use with no current benefit.

## vtnerd | 2019-03-25T18:27:23+00:00
I assume the mention of C++14 in the commit was due to this function call here. `boost::container::map` has the same interface as the STL version, and has the templated find method available for C++03 or newer compilers. Not sure if its worth transitioning to the library, but it is there.

This interface (without the templated find) also seems preferable only if the majority of the sources are _not_ `std::string`. It seems the opposite is true, that ultimately all sources are `std::string`.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-25T14:30:59+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-04-06T14:00:26+00:00
