---
title: A couple minor fixes found by Coverity
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5729
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-07-03T15:23:32+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-08-27T20:20:20+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-08-27T20:20:20+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-08-27T20:20:20+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## xiphon | 2019-08-14T21:15:18+00:00
```suggestion
       offset += verlen;
```

## xiphon | 2019-08-14T21:24:45+00:00
```suggestion
      ASSERT_X(offset + verlen <= BUFFER_SEND_SIZE, "MONERO_VERSION is too long")
```

## xiphon | 2019-08-14T21:25:20+00:00
`is_subaddress` is initialized twice

## hyc | 2019-08-14T23:03:26+00:00
If MONERO_VERSION is a string literal then you shouldn't be using a runtime computation (strlen) at all. You should be using sizeof() instead, since this is a compile-time constant.

In OpenLDAP we use `#define STRLENOF(X) sizeof(x)-1` (which accounts for the trailing NUL character)...

## vtnerd | 2019-08-14T23:09:31+00:00
The compiler is usually capable of recognizing string literals and converting `std::strlen` into constants. Recent versions of Clang and Gcc do this anyway. There may be situations where they fail to detect this (tested only on [godbolt.org](https://godbolt.org/)).

## hyc | 2019-08-14T23:17:52+00:00
That's wonderful, but relying on compiler magic instead of having explicitly written behavior is how you get unexpected holes in security-sensitive code.

## xiphon | 2019-08-14T23:51:42+00:00
While we are discussing this code chunk, current Monero Ledger app has a restriction on version string length, 10 chars max (is not null terminated).
Might be worth it to add a static assert on max MONERO_VERSION length.

Check in Monero Ledger app code:
```c++
  char client_version[10];
  ...
  if (client_version_len > 10) {
    THROW(SW_CLIENT_NOT_SUPPORTED+1);
  }
```

## vtnerd | 2019-08-17T05:32:26+00:00
> That's wonderful, but relying on compiler magic instead of having explicitly written behavior is how you get unexpected holes in security-sensitive code.

I don't understand exactly. Is using `std::strlen` with a string literal not explicit behavior? Or is the maybe-not compile time an issue in this situation?

I've used `sizeof` liberally in places too, but it can be tricky since `MONERO_VERSION` is declared in another file. If the type is `const char*` instead of `const char[]`, then the wrong value is computed whereas `std::strlen` uses type checking and will compute the correct length either way (although with `const char*` it does so at runtime).

The likelihood of `sizeof` being used incorrectly here is low due to the way these constants are typically declared, so I'm not recommending against its usage either.

## vtnerd | 2019-08-17T05:37:01+00:00
I suppose `MONERO_VERSION` could also be a `nullptr` or incorrect pointer value, which breaks `std::strlen`. But I don't know how `sizeof` could work correctly in any situation where `MONERO_VERSION` refers to an incorrect pointer.

## xiphon | 2019-08-26T12:04:34+00:00
Still believe we have to use `<=`. Does Coverity also complain on `<=` check?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-08-26T12:49:48+00:00
I don't know, but I doubt it since <= appears correct. I'd missed this in the mostly pointless discussion about strlen/sizeof.

## hyc | 2019-08-27T11:36:58+00:00
The strlen/sizeof discussion may have been a trivial example, but it reflects a trend that you've also remarked on.  https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5793#issuecomment-525254218

Using PREPROCESSOR_MACROS() makes it very obvious what is happening at compile time. Relying on smarter versions of compilers to convert runtime function() invocations into compile-time constants just obfuscates intent. It obfuscates whether the programmer is actually aware of what they're doing, and it forces later developers to also waste brain cycles wondering about something before moving on to more pressing matters. This is just code hygiene - constants should be obviously constant. All code intent should be obvious.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-03T15:23:32+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-08-27T20:20:20+00:00
