---
title: 'daemon, wallet: new pay for RPC use system'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5357
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-03-27T11:40:03+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-10-25T18:39:19+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-10-25T18:39:19+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-10-25T18:39:19+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-17T17:39:57+00:00
Where does this magic number 43 come from?

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-17T17:45:06+00:00
This comment looks like a leftover because I don't see any attempt to read next in non-portable mode

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-17T17:56:03+00:00
Is it customary in the Monero codebase not to bother with boost::filesystem to concat cleanly because all OS in question understand "/" as separator (even, somewhat surprisingly, Windows)?

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-17T18:06:12+00:00
At first sight that looks pretty expensive but I guess that there is a reasoning behind it, right? Because unlike for the other, much cheaper operations, network I/O is involved and considered "costly"?

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-17T19:13:50+00:00
That's an awful lot of structs that now get a new `client` field, and it all looks kind of un-elegant, but after brainstorming I was unable to come up with a alternative, better scheme: All that came to mind was either more complicated to implement or even threatened compatibility.

Why does `COMMAND_RPC_SUBMIT_RAW_TX::request_t` lack a `client` field?

I was musing that maybe it could be a good idea to add `client` to **all** structs, just out of principle and for symmetry. You could be sure then that no call "escaped" that should be able to carry a cost, and you could even introduce schemes like a very small "base cost" for bothering the daemon **at all** with an RPC call, even if only `get_height`.

## hyc | 2019-06-17T20:33:04+00:00
Why does client need to be specified in each RPC? Why don't we just associate a client at the beginning of a connection (via authentication) or after an `open_wallet` request and keep that associated to the session?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-06-18T11:32:41+00:00
It's to match:
```
#define VARIANT1_CHECK() \
  do if (length < 43) \
  { \
    fprintf(stderr, "Cryptonight variant 1 needs at least 43 bytes of data"); \
    _exit(1); \
  } while(0)
```
The nonce is at bytes 39-43. Though technically I think some of the data before it is variable size (the timestamp IIRC), though will not change size for quite a while.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-06-18T11:34:19+00:00
I don't know actually. I'll look up the docs for how that works.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-06-18T11:35:09+00:00
There's also tx verification. All these costs are preliminary really.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-06-18T11:40:23+00:00
SUBMIT_RAW_TX is not a RPC method. It's a mymonero RPC. It's been added there for reasons. I have a patch moving it to a mymonero specific header on github.

I suppose that now that we have SSL, we could cache the "I have checked this is an authorized client" in the connection structure and not recheck it every RPC. Sounds like something for later though.


## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-21T12:05:54+00:00
Maybe a little header or help text line would be nice, to make clear the order of the info, something like `client id, balance, total credits, (nonces good / stale / bad / dupe)`

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-21T12:10:07+00:00
Little typo "Wronmg"

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-21T12:12:50+00:00
New files probably need here 2018-2019 as years, or 2019 right away

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-21T12:23:06+00:00
Maybe I miss something here, but right now I don't understand why a nonce that is not correct is reported as a payment that is too low. If that's done merely to avoid yet another extra error code, I am not sure it's a good idea: Maybe people should get reported quite clearly that they submit bad nonces.

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-21T12:48:13+00:00
Is `RETURN_ON_RPC_RESPONSE_ERROR` not yet used here, but it should be used?

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-21T13:05:48+00:00
Link rot: It's now https://stackoverflow.com/questions/87372/check-if-a-class-has-a-member-function-of-a-given-signature (note the "/" instead of "-" after the number) ...

I don't think I will ever understand that trick :)

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-21T14:22:33+00:00
Maybe nothing wrong and I just don't understand the situation: Hashrate is 0 (or negative) but were are mining nevertheless, as per message? How so?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-06-21T15:50:22+00:00
That's the same thing, isn't it ? If you send a hash below the threshold, it's bad.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-06-21T15:54:36+00:00
If there's not been enough time to get an average (2 seconds).

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-21T16:18:50+00:00
With "conventional" standalone miners, there is a danger that your miner does not use the correct PoW algorithm and calculates completely wrong hashes because of this, so even if a hash has "the right number of zeroes in the right place" it's still not valid. I was worrying about that happening and people not finding the problem because the message "Payment too low" does not give a hint into the right direction.

But maybe this whole scenario is moot because we use Monero's own PoW code that will hardly ever produce completely wrong hashes.


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-06-21T16:58:15+00:00
OK, I'll change the message to give hints.

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-23T07:59:46+00:00
What's the story behind this check making sure that the timestamp is not in the future? Is there a special danger with those?

And isn't there quite a danger of false alarms, caused by clients that have set their timezone wrong in the OS, so that their UTC time comes out 1 hour or more in the future compared to the UTC time that the daemon calculates, which then would trigger this test?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-06-23T08:25:47+00:00
A request mst have a timestamp greater (or greater or equal) to the previous request's timestamp. If you allow some insane timestamp, then it will prevent any future request using a correct timestamp. If a client has their timezone wrong, I don't see why that would matter for UTC time, unless the client does some dire determine-UTC-from-local-time-and-wrong-timezone.

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-23T08:42:39+00:00
Understood. I think you are right about timezones; clocks that are simply set wrong "by hand" and not yet corrected back by some following NTP lookup might be a bigger problem. Anyway if surprisingly problems ever crop up this simple test will be easy to modify, so probably no worry.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-06-23T08:43:30+00:00
The timestamp is what's signed. Signature must verify to check the sender is the owner of the credits. You want the timestamp to be unique (except for some light calls which are allowed) to avoid replay. Using a nonce means you can't use the system from more than one device (unless you copy the nonce from device to device when you switch).

## rbrunner7 | 2019-06-23T08:46:36+00:00
Yes, I think I understand that "signed timestamp" system in general and the problems it solves and the protection that it provides. I was only wondering whether this particular check might be too strict, but that has been cleared now :)

## stoffu | 2019-06-28T04:37:55+00:00
Why use floating point `0.0f` instead of integer `0`?

## stoffu | 2019-06-28T05:27:59+00:00
`node_rpc_proxy.h` is repeated.

## stoffu | 2019-06-28T06:09:23+00:00
This line seems unnecessary since `m_rpc_payment_blob` gets written by `parse_hexstr_to_binbuff` below.

## stoffu | 2019-06-29T05:59:06+00:00
Maybe add error reporting?

## stoffu | 2019-06-29T06:00:54+00:00
Why request info from public nodes rather than the currently connected node? Also, does the connected daemon surely include itself in the result of `get_public_nodes` RPC?

## stoffu | 2019-06-29T06:48:15+00:00
Should use `>= 0.0f`

## stoffu | 2019-06-29T06:53:57+00:00
Meant `auto` instead of `out`?

## vtnerd | 2019-07-04T18:24:27+00:00
The global variables needs to be removed. `core_rpc_server` has a single instance, but globals tend to generally be a maintenance/testing nightmare.

The `core_rpc_server` already has an object for tracking identities and payment ... why not leverage that?

## vtnerd | 2019-07-04T18:30:21+00:00
Are there two timers for this? One here and in the macro? Are both needed?

## vtnerd | 2019-07-04T18:36:13+00:00
There is a function in `hex.h` that takes a span - making it possible to convert from a portion of the `std::string` directly to the structs without doing a `std::string` copy.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-04T18:40:50+00:00
Why have the custom string format, instead of using the standard serialization mechanism?

## vtnerd | 2019-07-05T03:15:29+00:00
I cannot comment on the existing thread unfortunately - I would also advocate for coming up with an improved auth strategy now instead of potentially adding technical debt and thinking about a different strategy later. It will be difficult to undo the current implementation.

This design _should_ require TLS because the signature is not committing to the request at all - it could be changed in transit entirely. Signing the entire blob isn't too complicated, and is likely preferable since the special field `client` can be removed from _all_ the requests. Instead a new RPC call with:

```c++
struct rpc_access_call
{
    struct request
    {
        crypto::public_key user;
        crypto::signature signature;
        std::string request_name; // name of desired RPC call
        std::string request_body; // JSON/binary for RPC call
    };

    struct response
    {
        BEGIN_KV_SERIALIZE_MAP()
            KV_SERIALIZE(credits);
            st.set_value("response_body", response_body, hparent_section);
        END_KV_SERIALIZE_MAP()

        uint64_t credits;
        epee::serialization::section response_body; // type erased response
    };
};
```

which verifies the signature over `request_name` and `request_body`, then parses the json and forwards to the specified RPC. This would require a slight refactor to the RPC system - the top level "map" would check for this auth request and otherwise forward to the existing map function.



## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T03:59:18+00:00
The problem with the timestamp system is the relative differences between client and server can cause a rejection. Also the `LEEWAY` value means that replays are possible for a short-time frame. FWIW, Wireguard tracks timestamps per identity, and doesn't let them "rollback".

## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T04:04:50+00:00
This is a subtle initialization-order-fiasco issue, that is (luckily) unlikely to strike.

I would switch to `std::chrono::system_clock`. The epoch is undefined but all relevant implementations use the Unix epoch and UTC. The C++20 spec requires both (all but ensuring current C++11 implementations will be doing this too at this point).

This constant would be unnecessary, as the value returned by `std::chrono::system_clock::now()` is the elapsed UTC time from the Unix epoch.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T04:10:05+00:00
This should be impossible to fail (especially since the precision is capped at 16), but there is a return value from `snprintf`. The `strlen` check wouldn't necessarily cover that case.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T04:29:44+00:00
Someday the haskell overlords will complete their C++ takeover with a  `expect<variant<t_response, json_rpc::error>>` return-value here.


## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T04:35:51+00:00
Its not obvious why the code in the `run` function had to be bumped forward to the constructor ... ?

## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T04:45:17+00:00
A tuple is kind of confusing in this context, because there is no indication what each `uint64_t` is representing.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T04:47:52+00:00
I must be missing something with the scale here - why not just have a larger `credits` value?

## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T05:03:40+00:00
And this is the moment I remembered that I never did the hex->binary upgrades that I had thought about all that time ago. Ignore since this would require updating the hex conversion code too.

Only the binary->hex was done.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T19:30:27+00:00
After "sleeping on it", I think the best action is to require SSL or ZMQCurve for the pay-for-RPC feature. Both SSL and ZMQCurve provide data integrity, replay protection and privacy. The replay protection in both includes a server nonce such that the encrypted stream after the payload cannot be reused. SSL includes the timestamp in the nonce to protect against poor RNGs. This custom design allows replays for a short time period, provides no data integrity, and requires client and server clocks to be closely in sync (relative to each other).

The other question is how the client authentication is performed. SSL and ZMQCurve have client authentication builtin. Every callback could be forwarded the connection context (or just the client `optional<public_key>`). Given this current patch, a custom auth scheme is likely quicker to code (its already done!) but means maintaining some auth thing inside every RPC call.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T19:44:33+00:00
One other thing - in ZMQCurve the client pubkey is **not** sent in plaintext, but in SSL the client pubkey **is** sent in plaintext unless the server does a renegotiation on an existing connection OR TLS 1.3+ is used. So boo to SSL auth actually.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T20:54:13+00:00
If the daemon was bootstrapping off another - they would lose all previously accrued credits on a restart? Kind of a pain to fix for sure, might want to drop a `// TODO` at least.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T20:58:37+00:00
Ah here is the wireguard implementation at least. So replays aren't possible since the counter has to move forward (in some contexts but not others). AFAIK the current auth scheme still doesn't sign any of the fields in the request and the clocks have to be relatively close (thus I would still recommend SSL).

## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T21:39:06+00:00
I don't follow the `extra_nonce` part. Why not pass the `public_key` directly to the `get_block_template` call instead of passing a dummy value that gets dropped and replaced?

Also, why leak a portion of the public key associated with the RPC-pay system? This isn't how payment id's are sent (this won't be encrypted AFAIK).

## vtnerd | 2019-07-06T21:51:32+00:00
An `if (!payments.insert(nonce).second)` both inserts and checks the set in one call.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:13:19+00:00
I don't see the purpose of the cookie. Is the idea that somehow the client's mining and request/response code will not be synchronized?

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:20:23+00:00
```c++
std::unordered_map<crypto::public_key, client_info>::const_iterator rpc_payment::begin() const
{
    return m_client_info.begin();
}
std::unordered_map<crypto::public_key, client_info>::const_iterator rpc_payment::end() const
{
    return m_client_info.end();
}
```
is probably easier than this callback method - no locking needs to be done during iteration. Just use a foreach loop. It will also be marginally faster.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:22:40+00:00
What exceptions are expected here? std::iostream exceptions are not set, so it would have to be a `std::string` allocation failure or something. Its funky because its the one error state not clearing the map anyway.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:22:57+00:00
Trivial: take by value and then move (its being copied anyway).

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:24:09+00:00
Same thing here.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:25:12+00:00
I thought this function was punted? It should be an exact alias of `boost::create_directories(directory, ec)` ? Eh making sure its identical might be some more work.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:26:00+00:00
This is another function that should be punted because its just a useless wrapper around `boost`. Consider taking step 1 towards dropping this epee function:

```c++
if (boost::filesystem::exists(boost::filesytem::path(directory) / RPC_PAYMENTS_DATA_FILENAME))
```

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:42:14+00:00
Definite portability issue, both on the right-hand-side are `uint64_t` and `time_t` is an unspecified arithmetic type which can be a `int32_t` on some platforms. Probably won't "bite" until 2038.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:47:01+00:00
A weird portability quirk: `time_t` is an unspecified arithmetic type (also mentioned below) with an unspecified precision (yes, really). I don't think this would ever hit, though (all? implementations are seconds).

A `std::chrono::system_clock` has specified precision and integer types:
```c++
std::chrono::duration_cast<std::chrono::seconds>(std::chrono::system_clock::now());
```
which always gets seconds.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:47:58+00:00
`std::chrono::seconds` ? See below.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:49:30+00:00
This is pruning more than just aged out elements (looking at function name). Isn't there some useful stuff with 0 credit accounts? Couldn't the client provide the same hashes in certain circumstances? Specifically, credits goto 0 but new block has not been found, this prunes their account, and now the same hash can be provided ... ?

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:52:48+00:00
There are a few issues here (only the first is critical):
  * If someone rolled back the local clock, this would underflow
  * `unsigned` is thankfully a `uint32` on virtually all platforms we support, but a `uint32_t` would help.
  * `uint32_t` doesn't support all `time_t` values on some platforms, although that date is far beyond 2038.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:53:15+00:00
Same here as above.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T00:56:29+00:00
... `std::chrono::hours{1}` ...

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T01:00:20+00:00
At some point we can we start using actual C++ constants for new things? The preprocessor method was always a hack.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T01:01:33+00:00
Where is this defined? Is this aliasing something from another file?

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T01:04:39+00:00
I tried to expand every diff on github, and I'm not seeing where this is used outside of this class. Can this be put back into the cpp only?

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T04:01:25+00:00
The client auth wasn't validated ...

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T04:05:47+00:00
What is the purpose of this RPC call? Is is just giving credits away?

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T04:07:06+00:00
Auth validation?

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T04:07:29+00:00
`return boost::none;` is the usual technique but this works too.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T04:18:45+00:00
Updated in next review - but the second part about replays being temporarily possible isn't true due to the tracking in another class (unless the account is pruned).

EDIT: I don't know why this shows up here, I thought this would show up separately. This review comments that my prior comment about replays was wrong, but everything else was valid AFAIK.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T04:27:00+00:00
Can this at least be broken up so that the two lambdas are created on the stack for readability? This is a giant function call.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-07T04:34:46+00:00
Is every RPC call including this to make it easier for the pay-for-RPC case? Is there some technique where this an just be inserted to every response? Or can this be dropped (efficiency)? I mean its adding to lots of changes and Im not entirely sure why.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:14:36+00:00
The LEEWAY system is meant for someone who some manages to spoof someone cannot prevent them from using the system again. It is not intended to prevent replay (as you apparently found out since).

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:17:39+00:00
I guess it could be moved there, though some RPCs aren't "pay for".

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:22:08+00:00
Good point. I'll try to merge them.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:24:34+00:00
You mean, use a struct and epee serialize it, instead of raw data ? No particular reason IIRC, beyond it started with just one single key. Is there an advantage to bringing serialization into this ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:33:40+00:00
I think I like that idea for signing the entire request. No replay AFAIK (I assume you did not account for the timestamp check (unless for a RPC that disables it on purpose), if there's still replay then I don't know about it).
I'm totally unclear on how to piggy back to SSL or Curvezmq for this though.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:36:58+00:00
I don't get a widget to reply to the comment below, so I'll comment here:

> The problem with the timestamp system is the relative differences between client and server
> can cause a rejection. Also the LEEWAY value means that replays are possible for a short-
> time frame. FWIW, Wireguard tracks timestamps per identity, and doesn't let them "rollback".

Do you think rejecting badly off times is really a problem ?

Leeway is not meant to prevent replay. The code that prevents replay is:
```
    if (ts < info.last_request_timestamp || (ts == info.last_request_timestamp && !same_ts))
    {
      MDEBUG("Invalid ts: " << ts << " <= " << info.last_request_timestamp);
      return false;
    }
```

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:37:32+00:00
OK

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:40:02+00:00
If snprintf fails, we can sent bullshit data (but no overflow). Unless it's a valid timestamp that's about now (within LEEWAY), it'd get rejected. If it's a valid timestamp that's about now, then we're good :) Guess it doesn't hurt to throw anyway.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:42:25+00:00
This was because RPC was initialized before core. RPC init now uses core (via nettype()).

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:42:55+00:00
Fair, I'll make it a struct. It... grew.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:44:29+00:00
Ah, this is a bodge to ferry an integer through serialization, not a float.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:49:35+00:00
I don't think so, not 100% sure though.
If the local daemon bootstraps on a remote one, the RPC are proxied, so the wallet will mine to the remote daemon. The wallet has a --rpc-client-secret-key argument which allows it to reuse the same key between runs (at the cost of privacy). Since the whole system is meant to mine a bit ahead and not a huge amount, it's not such a problem if balance is lost, it's really supposed to be lost and not care much.


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:52:41+00:00
Right. I'll try to add the system you suggested above, where the entire request is signed.
By "I would still recommend SSL", do you mean "I would recommend using SSL for that traffic", or "I would recomment using SSL to sign" ? I suppose that if the connection is using SSL, then the individual signing becomes moot from a third party attacker standpoint, but the user may be the attacker, so you'd still want the daemon to check for such things since the user would encrypt/sign "malicious" data with the correct key.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:54:32+00:00
There was a reason for this replacement, which I can't recall atm.
Good point about the pubkey. It's just meant to be different for each client. Hashing it with some specific salt should do, right ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:57:20+00:00
Yes. The code accepts slightly stale submissions, to avoid the client starting spamming the server to not waste time hashing for nothing. The cookie lets the server know which template to use (to avoid two Cryptonight hashes where one could do). If it's a cookie from more than one step away, it can be rejected without hashing at all. It means there's still a window for a miner to hash for nothing, if a block was found just after a miner update, not sure.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T14:59:03+00:00
Not sure I like the idea. It's leaking iterators to the inside, which will get invalidated soonish.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:01:55+00:00
Any I/O and serialization exceptions I guess. The "a >> *this" seems very exception-ey, but that's just an assumption :)
And yes, the caller doesn't check error. That's wrong. I guess clearing the object would be enough.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:02:57+00:00
Oh, I'd missed the >> is already caught above.
There's a log though, and you sometimes point out logs can throw :P

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:04:36+00:00
Well, it exists, and it does what we want.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:06:08+00:00
For platforms with 32 bit time_t, the value we get will be wrong in the first place since we get them off time(2), no ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:07:30+00:00
man 2 time says it's seconds since the epoch. I never heard of time being anything else than seconds before. That change seems busywork to me.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:08:00+00:00
True, I'll change.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:10:28+00:00
I don't see a good reason tbh. And if someone wants to use this from C they can :)

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:12:00+00:00
Line 7922 here. It could be moved to some common util somewhere except that, being in the wallet, it has wallet i18n calls.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:13:50+00:00
It uses at least a simplewallet field. I suppose it could be passed as a ref parameter though. Is it being here a problem ? It's private.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:17:14+00:00
IIRC this could was originally called without a signature, just a "hey, new client, here's my pubkey". I think it now has a sig too, I'll have to check. I don't think it matters here since it's not a "do something for me" call, but a "let me know your payment config" call.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:17:26+00:00
IIRC this could was originally called without a signature, just a "hey, new client, here's my pubkey". I think it now has a sig too, I'll have to check. I don't think it matters here since it's not a "do something for me" call, but a "let me know your payment config" call.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:18:24+00:00
It is used to pay for something else than RPC (hopefully). I keep seeing this webserver using a monerod daemon to pay for page loads...

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:19:36+00:00
This is a restricted RPC to get info on accounts. The client here isn't the requesting client, but the account we want to check.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:20:19+00:00
Heh, OK.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-07T15:22:43+00:00
All these are for the pay-for-rpc system, yes. credits allows the user to know what was subtracted, top_hash is to know if it should update its hashing blob if a block was found. I think this might be simplified with some system you typed out above (which was for signing the entire system, a similar thing might be usable for these two fields too). If you see a better way, I'm all ears, I don't really like the spam either.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-08T16:48:37+00:00
Ah, having the tracker per server means you cannot connect to the local server port and get the data for the public restricted rpc port.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-08T17:25:18+00:00
<s>To expand on this, this local client is used when the deamon runs its own RPC, like "monerod status" on a detached daemon. </s> Wait, this is not actually used anymore. I'll clean up.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-09T03:11:21+00:00
The format is documented a bit better / easier to follow. The timestamp could be sent as a standard JSON integer, etc. There was at least one project attempting to implement the [RPC system in Go](https://github.com/sunrisedo/monero).

## vtnerd | 2019-07-09T04:18:33+00:00
> I think I like that idea for signing the entire request. No replay AFAIK (I assume you did not account for the timestamp check (unless for a RPC that disables it on purpose), if there's still replay then I don't know about it).

Requiring SSL / ZMQ is likely less work, but signing the entire request is interesting too since it works even if someone botches the encrypted channel setup. I don't think its strictly necessary, but ¯\_(ツ)_/¯.

>  I'm totally unclear on how to piggy back to SSL or Curvezmq for this though.

Once authentication occurs within the encrypted+mac'ed stream, it never needs to be done through the remainder of the connection. Both systems provide encryption, integrity, and replay protection.

The simplest method is sending a random 32-bit value (as a JSON field) as an authentication token. The only downside is the server now has all of the authentication tokens unencrypted on the filesystem. The mitigation - a public key signature (as a JSON field) - can be to any arbitrary value (which is strange, for sure) since the contents of the stream should be unviewable and unreplayable.

There's also a new draft RFC for signing parts of a HTTP header with a public key (a new variant of HTTP auth), and existing HTTP auth. The latter would accept any user/pass value - it just needs to be consistent. Either might be awkward in this context but workable.

Using the builtin client authentication for SSL is easiest with Openssl 1.1.1+ since it can convert raw ed25519 to SSL certificates. Otherwise the authentication token has to be some SSL certificate generated by the client. ZMQ uses ed25519/curve25519 with libsodium. We already have code for SSL client authentication, but it would need to be adapted to accept any client certificate and then store that certificate in the connection context. ZMQCurve hasn't been implemented at all, but the process is similar.

I pointed out the ZMQ case to consider the possibility of making it work with both systems. Openssl 1.1.1+ also supports SSL ed25519 certificates -> raw value, so its definitely easier to use the same public key for SSL and ZMQ in that case.

> Do you think rejecting badly off times is really a problem ?

There is a decent probability that someone may run into a rejection due to an off-clock. I think this can be mostly mitigated by a nice error message.

The tricky case is with a "fast clock". The code allows any future timestamp, therefore someone that connected and then corrected their clock is now locked out or else needs to create a new account. A rare edge case, but an annoying one should it occur.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-09T09:45:55+00:00
On balance, I prefer the leeway system.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-09T09:48:46+00:00
BTW for the "submit same nonce" case, the message would be rejected as "query_info" would need to be called first (again), which would create a block template, etc. Still changed since not having a timeout for 0 balance means a honest miner can get "cancelled" before it's started if unlucky. I've made it an hour, which should be ample given templates get invalidated in 2 minutes on average by new blocks.

## vtnerd | 2019-07-12T03:57:26+00:00
The man page is referring specifically to the GNU implementation. Seconds is only mandated by Posix, not ISO C. From section 7.27 of the last [C11 draft](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/WG14/www/docs/n1570.pdf) (before you gotta pay):

> The range and precision of times representable in `clock_t` and `time_t` are implementation-defined.

Definitely surprising - its why working with time in a purely portable manner in C makes me want to bash something. Luckily, I doubt we'll ever use an implementation that is _not_ seconds since 1970 (just varied range/integer types).

## vtnerd | 2019-07-12T04:50:45+00:00
I thought `#define` was always a hack - constants can be defined in C without it which provides some minimal type safety. The binary output is identical (in optimized builds) unless the memory address of the constant is used. Declaring the variables in a C++ namespace also has the benefit of requiring shorter prefixes and importing into other namespaces.

I'll just keep these files unopened and pretend they don't exist.

## stoffu | 2019-07-12T08:33:55+00:00
Initialize `previous_top` as well?

## stoffu | 2019-07-12T08:56:50+00:00
Why not `const std::string &`?

## stoffu | 2019-07-12T09:01:45+00:00
Redundant `return true`

## stoffu | 2019-07-12T09:20:06+00:00
`add64clamp` seems handy for these lines.

## stoffu | 2019-07-12T09:39:20+00:00
Maybe make this member function `const` since the callback takes `const client_info &`?

## stoffu | 2019-07-12T09:41:53+00:00
Why is this member function not `const`?

## stoffu | 2019-07-13T06:44:08+00:00
Extra blank line

## stoffu | 2019-07-13T07:48:33+00:00
Maybe `RPC_TRACKER(get_public_nodes)` here like others?

## stoffu | 2019-07-13T07:52:09+00:00
Drop prefix `on_` like others? Same applies to: on_generateblocks, on_get_base_fee_estimate, on_pop_blocks, on_get_output_distribution, get_output_distribution_bin

## stoffu | 2019-07-13T08:06:47+00:00
Seems wrong as `resp` is never touched. Should use `res.m_block_ids.size()` instead.

## stoffu | 2019-07-13T08:26:40+00:00
The above 4 lines can be simplified to just `reserved_offset += sizeof(tx_pub_key) + 2;` because we already ensured `!extra_nonce.empty()` and `reserved_offset != 0`.

## stoffu | 2019-07-13T08:37:04+00:00
This test seems unuseful since `req.amounts.empty()` here implies that the RPC is unrestricted which then implies that the share-rpc system is disabled.

## stoffu | 2019-07-13T08:40:09+00:00
Why not charge credit proportional to the workload size specified by `req.count`?

## stoffu | 2019-07-13T08:44:20+00:00
Perhaps useful to print the client ID as well?

## stoffu | 2019-07-13T08:46:28+00:00
What's the point of this RPC? Seems never used by the wallet side. Seems to be consuming the client's credit for nothing. Is this intended to be expanded later for some more additional services (if so, care to elaborate on possible scenarios)?

## stoffu | 2019-07-13T08:56:02+00:00
How about dropping the word `access` from this RPC name since the tracking info also covers those RPCs not available for the share-rpc system?

## stoffu | 2019-07-13T08:57:54+00:00
Initialize with 0?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T06:59:33+00:00
This function seems generic enough to be useful for many other places. How about adding it to e.g. epee/int-util?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T07:16:04+00:00
It seems that whether share-rpc is enabled or not is determined by checking `m_rpc_payment_diff > 0`, so I don't see much point in introducing this additional bool. The same goes to the `bool &payment` arg in `get_rpc_payment_info`. Also, this variable naming looks a bit uninformative.

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T07:23:13+00:00
Does this line imply that the values assigned to these two variables may be different, and the one held in `m_rpc_payment_state.credits` which is unaffected in `NodeRPCProxy::get_rpc_payment_info` to be returned?
It seems more natural to me to do `m_rpc_payment_state.credits = resp_t.credits` inside `NodeRPCProxy::get_rpc_payment_info`.


## stoffu | 2019-07-14T07:24:23+00:00
Isn't this field unnecessary because `m_rpc_payment_state.credits` already holds the current credits?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T07:48:01+00:00
The above lines seem to be almost repeated again below which I think can be simplified to something like:
```c++
  bool first = true;

  static std::atomic<uint32_t> nonce(0);
  while (contfunc(n_hashes))
  {
    try
    {
      need_payment = get_rpc_payment_info(true, payments, credits, diff, credits_per_hash_found, hashing_blob, height, cookie) && payments && credits < credits_target;
      if (!need_payment)
        return true;
      if (first)
      {
        if (!startfunc(diff, credits_per_hash_found))
          return true;
        first = false;
      }
    }
    catch (const std::exception &e) { return false; }
    ...
```


## stoffu | 2019-07-14T07:48:51+00:00
This can crash when `hashing_blob` is empty which is checked just below.

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T07:51:16+00:00
Already included in `node_rpc_proxy.h`

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T08:04:14+00:00
This struct seems unused.

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T08:23:55+00:00
Doesn't this section always get skipped because of the line above `m_daemon_address = std::move(daemon_address);`?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T08:30:25+00:00
Why not use `THROW_ON_RPC_RESPONSE_ERROR` here like elsewhere?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T08:32:05+00:00
Maybe initialize `m_credits_target` too?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T08:33:33+00:00
Why not use `THROW_ON_RPC_RESPONSE_ERROR` here like others?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T08:37:40+00:00
Maybe report the error message?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T08:39:54+00:00
Why ignore error cases?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T08:42:35+00:00
Why ignore error cases?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T08:45:03+00:00
Why not use `THROW_ON_RPC_RESPONSE_ERROR` here like elsewhere?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T08:47:11+00:00
Maybe report the error?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T08:49:47+00:00
Why not concatenate these bools into the first if section with OR?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T09:01:16+00:00
Maybe do the same for the other three new commands (`rpc_payment_info`, `start_mining_for_rpc`, `stop_mining_for_rpc`)?

## stoffu | 2019-07-14T09:09:09+00:00
Intended to use `cphs` instead of `cph`?

## selene-kovri | 2019-07-14T15:06:10+00:00
I use it in software that will be made public in the near future, to "pay" for external work. monerod handles all the balance/payment/verification side, and tells me whether a user has enough balance for a given request, and maintains that balance.


## stoffu | 2019-07-15T08:17:10+00:00
Why not use `crypto::generate_keys`?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T08:53:25+00:00
This compares the price claimed on the P2P list with the price given when trying to mine. The idea is to not give an incentive for nodes to lie on the P2P list since it'd be shown in the wallet when a user actually tries to mine.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T08:54:47+00:00
I meant our.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T08:56:46+00:00
It used to, the change was requested by vtnerd above, micro optimization using std::move.


## stoffu | 2019-07-15T08:59:03+00:00
Duplicated line

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T09:01:31+00:00
I added a sub64clamp for them.

## stoffu | 2019-07-15T09:10:22+00:00
I can see this holds when `last_credits` is zero, but what about the other case? Can't `res.credits` be somewhere above 0 and not equal to 5000?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T09:10:55+00:00
True, but I'll keep it because keeping it seems safer in case that assumption is removed later.

## stoffu | 2019-07-15T09:12:59+00:00
Should indent with four spaces (not two)

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T09:20:26+00:00
Maybe, but I would rather not: I'm concerned that this might put an emphasis on who is the source of actual monero, compared to the source of hashes. Since the system is based on work amount (probabilistically finding monero), but the server owner's income is actual monero, it seems best to not add any incentive/opportunity for treating actual finders differently.


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T09:22:33+00:00
It's a way to make the pay-for-service system usable from third party software. Hopefully selene's software is the first of many to use this :)

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T09:24:16+00:00
I think it makes sense. The pay for service system allows one to control access via payment, but free access is still access.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T09:36:34+00:00
I removed the former, but I think having the latter is clearer for the API (I changed the variable name from payments to payment_required).

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T09:40:47+00:00
This is a bit tricky: in order to conveniently handle the RPC calls returning the user's credit balance, the credits field is updated by handle_payment_changes, called from RETURN_ON_RPC_RESPONSE_ERROR, called from NodeRPCProxy::get_rpc_payment_info.
So this code gets credits from the recent RPC return data.


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T09:48:31+00:00
That seems a bit more confusing due to the first variable, but I think this does what you want in a simpler way:


```
  try
  {
    need_payment = get_rpc_payment_info(false, payment_required, credits, diff, credits_per_hash_found, hashing_blob, height, cookie) && payment_required && credits < credits_target;
    if (!need_payment)
      return true;
    if (!startfunc(diff, credits_per_hash_found))
      return true;
  }
  catch (const std::exception &e) { return false; }

  static std::atomic<uint32_t> nonce(0);
  while (contfunc(n_hashes))
  {
    try
    {
      need_payment = get_rpc_payment_info(true, payment_required, credits, diff, credits_per_hash_found, hashing_blob, height, cookie) && payment_required && credits < credits_target;
      if (!need_payment)
        return true;
    }
    catch (const std::exception &e) { return false; }

```

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T09:49:30+00:00
(since the first checking of blob and setting of cn_variant is always overwritten by the first loop call anyway)

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T10:07:54+00:00
The error case is sufficiently different (it continues).

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T10:10:28+00:00
It's already reported by node_rpc_proxy, when it calls the RPC.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T10:12:11+00:00
I'd say merge error, but there are two... I don't remember a reason for this, I'll add them back.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T10:15:44+00:00
Ah, I think it's because originally these weren't using the RPC proxy, and so error checking is now done in the proxy. Still needs to return or re-throw if result though. I'll do that.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T10:21:25+00:00
It seemed appropriate to have the known OK case and the known error cases separate. Doesn't really matter either way.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T10:31:35+00:00
It seemed more like a wallet thing. keypair was something I considered, but that's in cryptonote, not crypto, and I chose to keep cryptonote away from deps. keypair might make sense to move to crypto, except it's now got this device type...

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T10:35:30+00:00
The loop's actually wrong, it doesn't update last_credits. I'll go through it again.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-15T16:49:44+00:00
It has to be >= 5000 since last nonce was valid.

## stoffu | 2019-07-16T08:59:48+00:00
I get your intention, but I don't see this working. `get_public_nodes` RPC is called against the new daemon that the wallet connects to via the `set_daemon` command. In `core_rpc_server::on_get_public_nodes(...)`, I see that only the p2p peer nodes are included in the response, not the connected node itself. Thus I expect the simplewallet.cpp line 5122 `if (host == daemon_url)` to always evaluate to `false` and thus `check_daemon_rpc_prices` to always return `false`. Or am I missing something?


## stoffu | 2019-07-16T09:30:14+00:00
I don't understand, why not simply do this which doesn't have any additional dependency?
```diff
   if (argc == 1)
   {
     crypto::public_key pkey;
-    crypto::random32_unbiased((unsigned char*)skey.data);
-    crypto::secret_key_to_public_key(skey, pkey);
+    crypto::generate_keys(pkey, skey);
     printf("%s %s\n", epee::string_tools::pod_to_hex(skey).c_str(), epee::string_tools::pod_to_hex(pkey).c_str());
     return 0;
   }
```


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-16T11:18:29+00:00
By "It seemed more like a wallet thing", I meant that it seemed like a function made specifically for wallets, since it's got the recovery system. But I'll change it, it seems like a good choice on second thought.


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-16T13:32:26+00:00
I see the problem. I had this patch to allow testing llocally:

```
diff --git a/src/p2p/net_peerlist.h b/src/p2p/net_peerlist.h
index f20cb7b40..1ff057c12 100644
--- a/src/p2p/net_peerlist.h
+++ b/src/p2p/net_peerlist.h
@@ -253,11 +253,11 @@ namespace nodetool
   bool peerlist_manager::is_host_allowed(const epee::net_utils::network_address &address)
   {
     //never allow loopback ip
-    if(address.is_loopback())
-      return false;
+//    if(address.is_loopback())
+//      return false;
 
-    if(!m_allow_local_ip && address.is_local())
-      return false;
+//    if(!m_allow_local_ip && address.is_local())
+//      return false;
 
     return true;
   }
```

I'll change get_public_nodes to include the local node if it provides public RPC.,

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-16T13:41:38+00:00
Except a node doesn't usually know its IP address. I'll rework that.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-16T13:56:19+00:00
Done, the wallet now remembers the claimed cost from earlier public_node commands, and compares with this.

## stoffu | 2019-07-17T01:38:15+00:00
Isn't `m_claimed_cph` going to be empty here if `public_nodes` was not called prior to calling `set_daemon`?

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-17T09:00:03+00:00
It will be, yes.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-07-17T09:00:36+00:00
In that case, there's no check, since you have nothing to check with.

## selene-kovri | 2019-07-25T16:00:03+00:00
For the record, what I was talking about - private monero payments by mining:

https://github.com/selene-kovri/primo-apache
https://github.com/selene-kovri/primo-firefox
https://github.com/selene-kovri/primo-control-center

The I2P IRC channels don't seem to be relayed anymore and you can't get to freenode with Tor without making an account with Tor so... anyone feel free to post the links in IRC if the relays are dead :)


## hyc | 2019-10-20T16:17:32+00:00
The explanation for something "a bit tricky" probably should go into comments in the source, yes?

## stoffu | 2019-10-24T02:45:36+00:00
Is it OK to return with the other fields in `res` such as `start_height` and `current_height` left uninitialized?

## stoffu | 2019-10-24T03:28:49+00:00
I've commented previously that this struct isn't used anywhere. No response?

## stoffu | 2019-10-24T03:52:10+00:00
These are already handled by `KV_SERIALIZE_PARENT(rpc_access_response_base)`

## stoffu | 2019-10-24T04:11:49+00:00
Unneeded

## stoffu | 2019-10-24T04:12:12+00:00
Unneeded

## stoffu | 2019-10-24T04:12:17+00:00
Unneeded

## stoffu | 2019-10-24T04:31:56+00:00
Shouldn't this be inside `params`? The same applies to:
- getlastblockheader
- getblockheaderbyhash
- getblockheaderbyheight


## stoffu | 2019-10-24T04:35:08+00:00
`COMMAND_RPC_SUBMITBLOCK::request` doesn't inherit `rpc_access_request_base`, so this field is unneeded. The same applies to:
- get_connections
- generateblocks
- get_height
- pop_blocks
- start_mining
- stop_mining
- mining_status
- flush_txpool
- get_bans
- set_bans
- set_log_level
- set_log_categories
- save_bc
- get_peer_list
- set_log_hash_rate
- stop_daemon
- get_net_stats
- get_limit
- set_limit
- out_peers
- in_peers
- update
- get_block_count
- prune_blockchain
- rpc_access_tracking
- rpc_access_data
- rpc_access_account


## stoffu | 2019-10-24T04:44:20+00:00
This RPC doesn't seem to exist.

## stoffu | 2019-10-24T05:17:40+00:00
As @vtnerd suggested, I also prefer `boost::none`. Also, `return boost::optional<std::string>("...");` can just be simply written as `return "...";` which I prefer for conciseness.

## stoffu | 2019-10-24T05:21:40+00:00
`get_rpc_payment_info` returns true if the querying process was successful; whether the daemon requires payment or not is held in `payment_required`

## stoffu | 2019-10-24T05:23:55+00:00
Unneeded

## stoffu | 2019-10-24T05:52:08+00:00
Maybe mention the special value 0 being interpreted as the default 50000?

## stoffu | 2019-10-24T06:51:23+00:00
This leaves `next_seed_hash` uninitialized when `next_height == seed_height` which seems problematic for later:
```c++
      if (seed_hash != next_seed_hash)
        res.next_seed_hash = string_tools::pod_to_hex(next_seed_hash);
```


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-10-24T11:22:01+00:00
I added it by mistake earlier, it's a patch I did not PR, this python function is removed in a more recent PR.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-10-24T11:24:05+00:00
There's a && at the end.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-10-24T11:27:26+00:00
AFAICT all of them are run if the block version is >= RX_BLOCK_VERSION. I'll add a null_hash anyway though.

## stoffu | 2019-10-25T01:40:33+00:00
Oops, I missed that :)

## stoffu | 2019-10-25T01:52:04+00:00
I'm not sure, but is it OK to have a macro call within `tr(...)`?

## stoffu | 2019-10-25T02:01:16+00:00
> AFAICT all of them are run if the block version is >= RX_BLOCK_VERSION.

I'm confused, I'm talking about when `version >= RX_BLOCK_VERSION`. What I meant originally is a suggestion to change something like:

```diff
     {
       uint64_t next_height;
       crypto::rx_seedheights(height, &seed_height, &next_height);
       seed_hash = m_core.get_block_id_by_height(seed_height);
       if (next_height != seed_height)
         next_seed_hash = m_core.get_block_id_by_height(next_height);
+      else
+        next_seed_hash = crypto::null_hash; // or seed_hash
     }
```


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-10-25T09:36:35+00:00
Ah, I had totally missed it, thanks.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-10-25T09:37:27+00:00
Good point, it'll end up within the translatable string, I'll change.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2019-03-27T11:40:03+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-10-25T18:39:19+00:00
