---
title: 'epee: implement handshake timeout for SSL connections '
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5918
author: xiphon
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-09-16T19:27:03+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-10-08T19:31:03+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2019-10-08T19:31:03+00:00'
merged_at: '2019-10-08T19:31:03+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2019-09-16T20:55:22+00:00
Move this inside the `if` statement that sets the timer.

## vtnerd | 2019-09-17T02:41:19+00:00
The `host` is used in the `verify_callback`, which means the reference must remain valid until `handler` is invoked. This is the case in current uses, but is easy to miss. At a minimum this needs to be documented.

More realistically, the values should be taken by value in that lambda OR the business logic loop above should be moved into the `handshake` function within the cpp so that all uses still block. If the caller starts a timer, the effect is the same, and it simulatenously fixes the same issue in the epee TCP server when using one I/O thread.

## xiphon | 2019-09-17T08:02:47+00:00
No

## xiphon | 2019-09-17T08:33:36+00:00
> The host is used in the verify_callback, which means the reference must remain valid until handler is invoked. This is the case in current uses, but is easy to miss. At a minimum this needs to be documented.

Won't fix, Is not an issue. The same is applicable to other code parts using async functions as well, think of async reads and writes and the buffers you passing in.
Does this bother you as well?
If so, you better submit a patch with changes you want to all the async functions at once.

>  the business logic loop above should be moved into the handshake function within the cpp so that all uses still block. If the caller starts a timer, the effect is the same, and it simulatenously fixes the same issue in the epee TCP server when using one I/O thread.

TCP server should use `async_handshake` instead of `handshake`, this will fix TCP server issue.
It is out of scope for the current PR. 
As always, patches from anyone eager to fix TCP server part are welcome.



## vtnerd | 2019-09-17T16:39:10+00:00
Why no? This only needs to be reset inside of that `if` block.

## vtnerd | 2019-09-17T16:44:25+00:00
> Won't fix, Is not an issue. The same is applicable to other code parts using async functions as well, think of async reads and writes and the buffers you passing in.
> Does this bother you as well?
> If so, you better submit a patch with changes you want to all the async functions at once.

Yes, actually. People frequently get the behavior wrong. Its why other languages have moved to "fibers" (go threads), etc., because its easy to botch this kind of thing.

There are advantages to this implementation, but no uses of this function are actually async currently. The epee server is still explicitly blocking and the epee client code is also blocking until the timer fires. So until the epee server is refactored to be fully async (which is doable), there isn't even a need for this async functionality (which is easy to re-introduce).

However, asio documents the behavior at least. As I originally stated, please at least document the restrictions in the header file, because its not obvious by the interface design.

**EDIT**: I want to clarify - thats why I suggested moving the "business logic" to the existing `handshake` function. Nothing is currently async, and the desired behavior in both cases can be met by moving code (i.e. not a huge amount of work).

## xiphon | 2019-09-17T17:00:55+00:00
Cause i want to reset it on successful connection as well (`e_ssl_support_disabled` case) . That is consistent with what we are doing on any other successful async operation.

## vtnerd | 2019-09-17T17:32:15+00:00
Ah crap, I missed the part where this was overwriting the existing `expires_at` call.

## vtnerd | 2019-09-17T17:35:09+00:00
In that case, its probably worth moving this variable up one scope so that it executes even if the socket isn't open.

## xiphon | 2019-09-17T17:45:05+00:00
Alright, don't like half measures either (i.e. fixing only client, but not server).

Will patch `handshake` routine so it will accept `timeout` parameter and will have its own deadline timer inside. Don't want to rely on the `blocked_mode_client` timer because `ssl_options_t` knows nothing about it.

## xiphon | 2019-09-17T22:38:52+00:00
It is gone

## vtnerd | 2019-09-17T22:47:59+00:00
Both server and client (after your initial patch) had set a timer already, so this additional one wasn't needed. Did/do you think this was better for consistency? It does ensure that the client doesn't "forget" to set a timer.

## xiphon | 2019-09-17T23:14:19+00:00
0. Zero to no overhead (almost)
1. The current implementation is clearer and it ensures `that the client doesn't "forget" to set a timer`.
2. Without the `timeout` parameter it is not obvious that invoking `m_ssl_options.handshake(socket, type, host)` will run event loop inside and the caller actually *might* cancel async handshake.

## vtnerd | 2019-09-17T23:35:46+00:00
One thing I find frustrating with ASIO is that every OS seems to have built-in send/receive timeouts for sockets. So it should be possible to do with a bit less "work" (the allocations for the callbacks in particular) to setup timeouts than the async method. I haven't seen any of their examples utilize this, presumable there is some platform issues.

## xiphon | 2019-09-18T17:42:19+00:00
In general - yes. But i think our implementation is the most correct way to handle timeouts.

Think of a malicious client intentionally replying at 1 byte per second speed during handshake. OS timeouts won't handle that. 
But our approach is immune to such an attack.

## vtnerd | 2019-09-19T02:01:49+00:00
The root problem is the big abstraction ASIO is providing in the handshake function. Otherwise you could adjust the timeout in a loop via an extra syscall or through `select`. But even in standard invocations of `read` that are basically direct syscalls, I've never seen an example that uses the built-in timeout techniques. Probably just confuses things; examples have consistent behavior across much of the higher-level api calls.

# Action History
- Created by: xiphon | 2019-09-16T19:27:03+00:00
- Merged at: 2019-10-08T19:31:03+00:00
