---
title: Core team post
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/630
author: rehrar
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2018-03-01T18:07:59+00:00'
updated_at: '2018-04-25T01:36:35+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2018-03-01T18:12:01+00:00'
merged_at: '2018-03-01T18:12:01+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## anonimal | 2018-03-03T00:11:43+00:00
>Ultimately, there is not yet a way for a domain name to be owned by a decentralized community

Centralization is a requisite for ownership. One can never "own" something while being decentralized because ownership requires at least one instance of authority. Authority requires dominance which requires followers which, in turn, forms a centralized body. Ergo, multiple authorities equate to multiple points of centralization.

>domain name to be owned by a decentralized community

There is a side-step for the domain issue and it's called kovri/i2p multi-homing:

>>Destinations may be hosted on multiple routers simultaneously, by using the same private and public keys. As both instances will periodically publish their signed LeaseSets to the floodfill peers, the most recently published LeaseSet will be returned to a peer requesting a database lookup. As LeaseSets have (at most) a 10 minute lifetime, should a particular instance go down, the outage will be 10 minutes at most, and generally much less than that. The multihoming function has been verified and is in use by several services on the network.

In other words, you and Nth other people can all "own" the same address after you distribute your site's private keys to said people (not advised unless you trust them or don't mind the potential that they could host something you don't like).

## anonimal | 2018-03-03T00:13:08+00:00
>Set a direction and vision for the Monero Project

This can't be done because the core team is purportedly not an authority. Setting direction and vision is the job of an authority - and centralization is a requisite for authority (see comment above).

## anonimal | 2018-03-03T00:21:43+00:00
>Monero is a movement

Monero is a software. Movements are centralized bodies which have leaders and funders - many of whom are working behind the scenes to spread their agenda. Monero is not a movement anymore than Windows is a movement (although Windows is a bowel movement, that's for sure).

>global initiative to further privacy globally

Implying that globalism is a requisite for providing privacy? That would be incorrect.

Monero can scale down to a small, local community and still serve it's purpose. Ironically, globalism is the antithesis of decentralization as it requires being built on centralized structures: both physically, socially, and metaphorically.

## anonimal | 2018-03-03T00:22:01+00:00
Rock on, tacotime.

## anonimal | 2018-03-03T00:22:25+00:00
Rock on, @binaryFate.

## binaryFate | 2018-03-03T09:42:22+00:00
Agreed. "Propose a direction and vision for the Monero Project" would be better.

Personally I think it is mostly about helping to keep the early community vision when said community keeps growing.

## binaryFate | 2018-03-03T09:49:32+00:00
> Monero is a movement

Monero is a software, but strongly ideals-driven. (Windows is not). Calling it a movement may be a strong word. But going to the other extreme, I would find limiting to define Monero as purely a software.

## binaryFate | 2018-03-03T09:50:28+00:00
Thank you @anonimal :)

## anonimal | 2018-03-06T12:11:52+00:00
>"Propose a direction and vision for the Monero Project"

I think this is an improvement but the fatal flaw is that this sets the precedent for democracy in a place where votes can be generated by random identities on the fly. Also, politics implies bureaucracy, appointees, officers, authorities etc. so, not only is that dangerous (politicians are bought all the time), but that is also beyond the purview of the core team.

Another danger: since the core team holds FFS funds, if the core team *proposes* an idea, this is essentially a suggestion of direction for any contributor *after* they are funded. If the contributor disagrees with the proposal, and they are outvoted by the community (but said contributor knows better because they have experience and skill-sets of which the community, in this example, doesn't have) the outcome will negatively affect the software and also risk food on the table for the contributor.

>Personally I think it is mostly about helping to keep the early community vision when said community keeps growing.

Referencing https://github.com/monero-project/monero-site/pull/634#discussion_r172493038.

# Action History
- Created by: rehrar | 2018-03-01T18:07:59+00:00
- Merged at: 2018-03-01T18:12:01+00:00
