---
title: 'Wallet RPC: Add support for MMS'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6180
author: rbrunner7
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-11-25T11:34:44+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-11-30T12:07:06+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2019-11-27T20:07:05+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This adds full support for the MMS (*multisig messaging system*) to the wallet RPC interface as exposed by the `monero-wallet-rpc` binary.

A Python program demonstrating the use of these calls can be found [here](https://github.com/rbrunner7/rbrunner7.github.io/blob/master/mms.py). Note that this program (not part of this PR) is still "work in progress" and will probably get several updates over the course of the next few days.

While developping and testing this RPC interface I noticed several points in the MMS itself that need improvements, but I decided not to mix things, make this an almost pure "Add RPC" PR and move any MMS changes to separate future PRs. Those may lead to changes in this interface of course, maybe even breaking ones, but things should be better to understand this way nevertheless.

# What the heck is this thing?

The MMS, the "multisig messaging system", is, well, a messaging system: It can shuttle messages back and forth between Monero wallets. It defines message types, the structure of messages, and implements an addressing scheme so that messages find their way to the right wallets.

Now, why would you want to use such messages to exchange data between Monero wallets? Maybe in the future there will be other reasons, but right now it's multisig. Configuring multisig wallets, making multisig transactions, and "syncing" wallets after such transactions all do require exchanging data between wallets. The MMS facilitates and automates this.

This PR here implements RPC access to the basic MMS functionality. With it you are not restricted to C++ programs to use the MMS, like the CLI wallet does to implement a set of "mms xxxxx" commands.

Want to build a dedicated, stand-alone Monero multisig tool in Python? This RPC interface gives you access to the MMS to send the necessary messages around. Want to implement a multisig-capable Monero wallet in software like OpenBazaar (using Go) or Bisq (using Java)? Again use this RPC for access to the necessary messaging if you don't want to implement it yourself in Go, Java or whatever.

Internally the MMS uses a piece of third-party software quite foreign to the Monero codebase called *PyBitmessage* for the actual message transport. I am the first one to admit that this not a good solution, but I did not find a better alternative so far. And one thing is very important to know: If you use the MMS in general or this RPC interface in particular, you won't bind yourself to that third-party software - it's hidden and could be replaced without changing the RPC interface.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2019-11-26T17:16:11+00:00
These are duplicating `struct`s in `message_store.h` entirely. Please merge their usage somehow.

## vtnerd | 2019-11-26T17:30:48+00:00
So its still not possible to setup multisig via RPC directly? Or am I missing somethign (I only did a quick-scan)? These RPCs are just for setting up an out-of-band communication thing (BitMessage)?

We now have i2p and tor support in the wallet, so we could've had a direct JSON-RPC over I2P/Tor hidden services for setting up multisig. BitMessage should have better privacy guarantees, but my goodness getting the simple case for users is still going to be a ton of work to merge with all of this code.

## rbrunner7 | 2019-11-26T18:21:22+00:00
This duplication of structs is along the same lines as some similar duplications of `wallet2` structs in `wallet_rpc_server_commands_defs.h`. The structs in `message_store.h` are "binary", so to say, with strings that directly hold binary contents, and use of enumeration type values. This is straight-forwared and simple for `simplewallet` as a **direct** user of the message store.

The structs here are suitable for RPC purposes, with enum values translated to strings (which I found to be current "best practice" after a quite thourough survey of opinions in this matter), and with any binary content like hashes, addresses and tx data hexed.

In my opinion these differences in usage merit the rathe simple code to translate back-and-forth.

## rbrunner7 | 2019-11-26T18:43:05+00:00
If you never had a look at the MMS in general so far I guess it must be difficult to get an overview from looking at this RPC code, or at `message_store.h`. It does much more than simply enable people to "set up multisig". It stores info about signers, establishes a system to address wallets, allows to configure them for multisig, to transact, and to sync wallets after transacting.

I think you can't infer from these calls here whether "doing multisig" will be simple or complicated for **end users**; I wouldn't say the the MMS command set as implemented in the CLI wallet is user-unfriendly or complicated.

By design the message store API as defined by `message_store.h` is quite low-level in order to offer a maximum of flexibility, fully on purpose, just like the wallet API as defined by `wallet2.h` mainly consists of primitives that the CLI wallet must then combine to build its high-level commands.

I know your "There surely must be a very simple way to ..." feeling all too well, by the way. Case in point: When i2p-zero neared completion I contacted the devs in the hope that it would be rather easy to replace PyBitmessage with i2p. We quickly saw that it's not that easy.

There is one particularly hard point: Can we submit users to a hard "must be online at the same time" requirement for doing anything multisig? So far I vote for "no" because very bad UX in my opinion. With "no" however you need something like P.O. boxes to deposit messages for users that currently are not online, and that would be work to implement, and comes with questions of trust and resources - who operates those P.O. boxes?

PyBitmessage with all its drawbacks nicely solves all this.

(That's not say it would be hard to get rid of it if finally some suitable replacement surfaces: The API and most of `message_store.cpp` is agnostic to the actual tool that gets used for message transport.)


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-11-26T18:57:18+00:00
It is possible to setup multisig via RPC entirely. There's a test which would catch that (tests/functional_tests/multisig.py).
Now, given the MMS is supposed to be a user friendly (friendlier ?) layer above multisig commands, I'm not sure we need RPC versions of these since people will have to call it programmatically anyway (unless there's actual extra functionality ?)

## vtnerd | 2019-11-26T20:00:33+00:00
> The structs in message_store.h are "binary", so to say, with strings that directly hold binary contents, and use of enumeration type values. This is straight-forwared and simple for simplewallet as a direct user of the message store.

The serialization will differ but the struct do not need to differ. There's a discussion thread about adding JSON support to `boost::serialization` for instance. I recall pushing for JSON in that initial review (maybe I am mistaken), because the format of `boost::serialization` isn't particular well documented for interoperability. Now, we have to add a second serialization "strategy" (epee and `boost::serialization`) and format (json and custom boost). And each strategy supports multiple formats.

> The structs here are suitable for RPC purposes, with enum values translated to strings (which I found to be current "best practice" after a quite thourough survey of opinions in this matter), and with any binary content like hashes, addresses and tx data hexed.

The structs can use multiple serialization techniques. The `boost::serialization` free functions are not overloading on the same name as the epee json function name.

## vtnerd | 2019-11-26T20:01:46+00:00
> If you never had a look at the MMS in general so far I guess it must be difficult to get an overview from looking at this RPC code, or at message_store.h. It does much more than simply enable people to "set up multisig". It stores info about signers, establishes a system to address wallets, allows to configure them for multisig, to transact, and to sync wallets after transacting.
> ...

None of this is a good justification for why this got shoved into the wallet code. It always seemed like an outside application.

> I know your "There surely must be a very simple way to ..." feeling all too well, by the way. Case in point: When i2p-zero neared completion I contacted the devs in the hope that it would be rather easy to replace PyBitmessage with i2p. We quickly saw that it's not that easy.

Did you think about future extensibility? I recall bringing this up in the initial review, because BitMessage was something outside of the monero ecosystem at that point in time. The biggest challenge for I2P is probably offline delivery of messages.

> There is one particularly hard point: Can we submit users to a hard "must be online at the same time" requirement for doing anything multisig? So far I vote for "no" because very bad UX in my opinion. With "no" however you need something like P.O. boxes to deposit messages for users that currently are not online, and that would be work to implement, and comes with questions of trust and resources - who operates those P.O. boxes?

Asynchronous RPC calls are more difficult, and I'm not certain the wallet should've taken on that complexity.

---------------------------------

> It is possible to setup multisig via RPC entirely. There's a test which would catch that (tests/functional_tests/multisig.py).
Now, given the MMS is supposed to be a user friendly (friendlier ?) layer above multisig commands, I'm not sure we need RPC versions of these since people will have to call it programmatically anyway (unless there's actual extra functionality ?)

I forgot we had some multisig RPC commands already. If those RPC calls can do everything necessary, why have this entire thing shoved into the monero wallet? The ease-of-use MMS thing can/should be an outside application.

## rbrunner7 | 2019-11-26T20:20:21+00:00
> It is possible to setup multisig via RPC entirely. There's a test which would catch that (tests/functional_tests/multisig.py).

Of course we have already RPC for multisig. The basic `wallet2` calls for doing multisig are implemented as RPC calls, as they should. But they leave out something very crucial: Transport of sync info and transactions between (far-away) wallets. Simple to write Python code with RPC calls to set up multisig wallets, transact and sync wallets afterwards **if everything happens on the same machine**.

If that's not the case we have a very different problem to solve, for which we have no programmatic support yet whatsover, whether directly or over RPC. Except the MMS + PyBitmessage, directly so far.

> Now, given the MMS is supposed to be a user friendly (friendlier ?) layer above multisig commands, I'm not sure we need RPC versions of these since people will have to call it programmatically anyway (unless there's actual extra functionality ?)

The reason for an MMS RPC is the same reason as for a wallet RPC: To enable to use it in other programming languages. I made a "proof-of-concept" Monero integration for OpenBazaar, which must be in Go, and which therefore used the wallet RPC. That integration **should** be multisig-capable for full functionality, and it could learn it, in principle, by using the MMS, over RPC, because Go.

That would not add commands like those `mms xxxxx` commands in the CLI wallet right now; the MMS would work almost completely under the hood. Actual message transport would probably go over Tor instead of PyBitmessage, using infrastructure that the OpenBazaar server offers.


## rbrunner7 | 2019-11-26T20:28:47+00:00
> Did you think about future extensibility? I recall bringing this up in the initial review, because BitMessage was something outside of the monero ecosystem at that point in time.

That question pains me. Only after much hesitation I brought in PyBitmessage, searching for quite some time for a suitable alternative existing **now**, finally giving up after finding nothing, and then tried to make it technically as easy as possible to swap out PyBitmessage at first opportunity. You can see this with little things like using the term `transport_message` instead of `bitmessage_address` throughout `message_store`, in the MMS CLI command help texts, and so on.

> The biggest challenge for I2P is probably offline delivery of messages.

Yes. I would very welcome a project that builds something on top of ip2-zero for this. The moment that gets merged PyBitmessage probably goes out the window. I am just in a very bad position to start that project **myself**. I don't know I2P, I don't know Java.


## moneromooo-monero | 2019-11-26T20:47:08+00:00
> The ease-of-use MMS thing can/should be an outside application.

I kinda agree with that. I originally went with it because the simplewallet commands make it a royal pain to use multisig in practice. I think it boils down to whether a separate program/UI for mms would also need reimplementing a lot of simplewallet to be useful. But I agree that all the bitmessage code seems like it doesn't belong here. In hindsight, I kinda regret not pushing back tbh, to at least understand whether a separate program/UI is viable first (besides, if it's a separate program/UI, it can be made better adapted to mms rather than shoved in simplewallet commands).


## rbrunner7 | 2019-11-26T21:11:40+00:00
>  I think it boils down to whether a separate program/UI for mms would also need reimplementing a lot of simplewallet to be useful.

Yes, and furthermore how it would deal with the somewhat unfortunate requirement that a wallet file is only allowed to be open exactly once, in a single application.

> to at least understand whether a separate program/UI is viable

Well, it's a little funny, the program [mms.py](https://github.com/rbrunner7/rbrunner7.github.io/blob/master/mms.py) I wrote to thoroughly test the new MMS RPC calls, with only 500 lines of Python code that doesn't even use one of the higher-level Python libraries for dealing with wallets over RPC, shows already to quite some degree how such a stand-alone program could look (and also how much one would probably miss the full CLI command set ...)

But two points: 1) Of course it was possible to use very simple-to-write high-level Python code only because of the somewhat controversial code of this PR, and 2) of course actual message transport, deep in the innards of the MMS, goes over PyBitmessage, lacking an alternative that is available **today**.

## rbrunner7 | 2019-11-26T21:14:27+00:00
> The structs can use multiple serialization techniques. The boost::serialization free functions are not overloading on the same name as the epee json function name.

How would that look in detail? I only know both serializations as highly automatic things so far, especially epee's JSON serialization. Where and how would there be a chance to intervene and serialize an enum as a string?

# Action History
- Created by: rbrunner7 | 2019-11-25T11:34:44+00:00
- Closed at: 2019-11-27T20:07:05+00:00
