---
title: Improve hex->bin Conversion
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6351
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-02-23T16:04:31+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-04-04T17:55:33+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-04-04T17:55:32+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-04-04T17:55:32+00:00'
---

# Original Description
The initial reason for the change was hex->bin conversion in the ZMQ JSON-RPC server required a temporary `std::string` for each attempt. The individual commits should explain the other changes.

@hyc and @moneromooo-monero should have copyrights, allowing the move into the monero copyrighted file. This move isn't strictly necessary to improve performance, but does it make easier on the compiler (less code in the header AND declared in a header with less overhead). The latter is useful because the ZMQ JSON code can (eventually) just include `hex.h` instead of the more expensive `string_tools.h`.

# Discussion History
## omartijn | 2020-02-26T09:05:10+00:00
Wouldn't it be nicer to multiple out.size() by 2 to compare instead of doing integer division? If `src.size()` is odd, this would continue to the `to_buffer_unchecked` before it is rejected.

## omartijn | 2020-02-26T09:07:31+00:00
I can't comment on the offending line, because it already exists in master apparently, but this code assumes that a `boost::string_ref` is always null-terminated, which it doesn't necessarily have to be.

The function contains the following incorrect comment:

> // the data to work with (std::string is always null-terminated)

While it's certainly true that an `std::string` is always null-terminated, we aren't dealing with an `std::string` here.

I am unsure whether we should fix it in this PR or whether a separate fix-PR should be made instead. I tend to lean towards fixing it here, since fixing it in another PR would likely yield merge conflicts when this PR gets merged first.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-26T14:59:26+00:00
Although unlikely, multiplication by 2 can overflow.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-26T14:59:57+00:00
I noticed this as well but wanted to do it in a separate PR so that reviewers would focus just on that.

## omartijn | 2020-02-26T15:17:47+00:00
That's true, but since they're both signed it's perfectly defined behaviour. And since both operands are of the same type (`std::size_t`) if the multiplication overflows the division wouldn't compare the same either.

I do get your point, though. Also, the current code does of course work correctly.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-26T17:02:14+00:00
> but since they're both signed

I think you meant `unsigned`? I don't think multiplication works for all cases. One (again, extreme example), would be if `out.size() == (size_t(1) << 63) | size_t(1)` and if `src.size() == 2`. Then `out.size() * 2 == src.size()`, and `src` is still divisible by `2` so the check in `to_buffer_unchecked` succeeds. This still has defined behavior since `out` is larger than `src`, but its no longer rejecting some inexact `out.size()`s.

This is admittedly a contrived example, but the division by 2 is going to be a right shift by 1 in ASM. So the only penalty is sometimes an additional bitmask and comparison is performed if the division check passes.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-28T23:22:54+00:00
See PR #6359.

## xiphon | 2020-03-19T14:40:17+00:00
Do you want to update just the copyright year in the file?

## vtnerd | 2020-03-20T03:11:47+00:00
Reverted.

## xiphon | 2020-03-20T09:41:15+00:00
Seems not

## vtnerd | 2020-03-20T15:31:46+00:00
This time the change was definitely added to the commit list.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2020-02-23T16:04:31+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-04-04T17:55:32+00:00
