---
title: 'easylogging++: sanitize log payload'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6550
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-05-17T12:42:24+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-07-08T22:06:51+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-07-08T22:06:51+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-07-08T22:06:51+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Some of it might be coming from untrusted sources

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2020-05-17T16:14:02+00:00
This overload is unnecessary due to the default argument.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-17T16:15:37+00:00
Why is this entire function repeated in this header, and the other cpp? Was it supposed to be removed from the other cpp?

## vtnerd | 2020-05-17T16:18:24+00:00
Just use `.append()` here. The code already assumes a particular constructor and `operator+=` interface; `append` is usually going to be more efficient.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-17T16:22:01+00:00
What are you trying to do here? `std::isprint` ? There's also [`boost::spirit::char_encoding::unicode::isprint`](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_64_0/boost/spirit/home/support/char_encoding/unicode.hpp) which works specifically with unicode points regardless of locale settings. There isn't a quick/guaranteed `isprint` for unicode in C++11.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-17T16:32:51+00:00
Ok, it looks like this is filtering for printable ascii and only space characters? This check might be off for upper characters I'd have to look again.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-05-17T16:53:56+00:00
Because easylogging++ does not depend on common.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-05-17T16:56:08+00:00
Keeping stuff we want to get in logs, but not control characters.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-18T01:16:41+00:00
Some independent thoughts:
* Why have template type `T`? Each "copy" of the function uses a single type.
* Using/instantiating templated code doesn't create a library dependency.
* The mnemonics code already depends on epee and easylogging.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-05-18T02:06:38+00:00
Because the original used string and wipeable_string. I'll remove the template on that one.

Are you telling me "you could #include "mnemonics/something" or even "common/something" in easylogging ? That'd be gross.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-18T04:11:21+00:00
So we're going with the two copies? Ahhh ... well at least in-place overwrites is guaranteed to work since the filtering function returns either the same codepoint or a single-byte codepoint (`?`).

[`boost::locale::utf`](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_72_0/libs/locale/doc/html/namespaceboost_1_1locale_1_1utf.html) has most of this implemented, and the documentation states linking is not required (header only). This would make an in-place implementation easier to read I think, something like:
```c++
char* wptr = &str[0];
const char* rptr = wptr;
char const* const end = rptr + str.size();
while ( rptr != end)
{
  using utf8 = boost::locale::utf::utf_traits<char>;

  const bool copy = rptr != wptr;
  const auto cp = utf8::decode(rptr, end);
  if (!boost::locale::utf::is_valid_codepoint(cp))
     throw std::runtime_error{...};

  // only works if log_filter returns codepoint equal or
  // less in length (always true currently)
  const auto filtered = filter_for_log(cp);
  if (filtered != cp || copy)
    wptr = utf8::encode(filtered, wptr);
  else
    wptr = rptr;
}
```

The [switch in the boost implementation](https://github.com/boostorg/locale/blob/boost-1.73.0/include/boost/locale/utf.hpp#L218) is a bit more compact, and contains a few more checks for invalid utf8 sequences. Regardless, the in-place version is doable once the filtering function is static/not mutable.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-18T04:12:20+00:00
The `Transform` function is also fixed here since this is just a straight copy. Just move the lambda into its own function and call `filter_codepoint` or whatever from inside the function.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-18T04:13:28+00:00
Just use default construction. It might skip `std::strlen` calls, but there isn't a reason to leave it to chance.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-18T04:16:25+00:00
I assume this was moved during the initial refactor?

Currently the only new call to this function is using an entirely different copy of the same function. Switching to a templated `Transform` function also doesn't seem useful. The `T` template is also (has always been) fixed according to my quick grepping.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-18T04:23:15+00:00
Yes, or the opposite - mnemonics could open something in easylogging.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-18T05:00:54+00:00
The calls to `std::tolower` are (and have been previously) invalid since simple wallet changes to the user environment locale which may not be unicode compatible. Presumably, everyone has been using utf8 encodings in their locale, or this would've failed. A comment or Github issue? If someone hits this edge case, lots should go wrong in the code I think.

There's `boost::spirit::char_encoding::unicode::tolower` (from the same file mentioned previously), but that drags in unicode tables from Boost. I don't see any other easy method, with Boost or C++, as you have to specify some kind of correct locale which is funky and may not be present. Boost locale can convert the entire string, but it only returns `std::string`.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-18T05:22:11+00:00
Comment on whats being allowed?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-05-18T11:26:28+00:00
Doesn't really belong in a logging API though. If you feel strongly about it, I guess I can do it that way.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-05-18T11:48:27+00:00
towlower might work ? I just saw it in the manpges, takes a wint_t, says "in the current locale", no mention of UTF-8.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-18T18:01:51+00:00
`towlower` is better but still has the same user environment locale/encoding issue. If the user environment uses `shift_jis`, then all of this is incorrect. Although, the wallet is probably unusable in that environment (i.e. scope larger than just this snippet), and no one has filed any bug reports so (nearly) everyone uses utf8 presumable.

I commented on it because the CLI output is probably going to be messed up in that situation, and it may not be immediately obvious why.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-05-18T18:33:20+00:00
I'll use towlower then. Whatever improvements can be done later if you find a good way (or boost).

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2020-05-17T12:42:24+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-07-08T22:06:51+00:00
