---
title: replace most boost serialization with existing monero serialization
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6690
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-06-25T13:23:58+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-08-27T09:54:40+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-08-27T09:54:40+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-08-27T09:54:40+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This reduces the attack surface for data that can come from
malicious sources (exported output and key images, multisig
transactions...) since the monero serialization is already
exposed to the outside, and the boost lib we were using had
a few known crashers.

For interoperability, a new load-deprecated-formats wallet
setting is added (off by default). This allows loading boost
format data if there is no alternative. It will likely go
at some point, along with the ability to load those.

Notably, the peer lists file still uses the boost serialization
code, as the data it stores is define in epee, while the new
serialization code is in monero, and migrating it was fairly
hairy. Since this file is local and not obtained from anyone
else, the marginal risk is minimal, but it could be migrated
later if needed.

Some tests and tools also do, this will stay as is for now.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2020-07-16T21:08:52+00:00
Inheriting from `std::` container is generally not recommended. I'm also not sure why this was done. Some compilation failure with `do_add`?

## vtnerd | 2020-07-16T21:10:08+00:00
Why drop the C++ cast? There's more compile-time safety checks ...

## vtnerd | 2020-07-17T03:39:31+00:00
All of the cases where the parameter is `T&&` need to be changed from `std::move(e)` to `std::forward<T>(e)`. The phrase to Google is "universal references" and/or "perfect forwarding".

## vtnerd | 2020-07-17T03:41:44+00:00
`std::move(e)` and on the next line.

## vtnerd | 2020-07-17T04:07:53+00:00
`boost::serialization` has an implicit string-header in every archive as a quick sanity check. I recommend the same thing here - it will quickly/correctly reject `boost::serialization` archives, identify incorrectly encoded `binary_archive`'s (this detection cannot be done currently), and will make future format changes easier in the future.

The primary problem is that this format is binary and compact. A future format could overlap significantly with this encoding scheme, resulting in decoding bugs that cannot easily be fixed.

The quickest method is likely inheriting from the existing type but with a read/write call in the constructor.

## vtnerd | 2020-07-17T04:12:16+00:00
Is this this change accidental? This is the older version, which I think implies the file is using the previous format.

## vtnerd | 2020-07-17T04:17:41+00:00
This uses a return code for primary error reporting, so the serialization-output code needs updating in several places.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-07-17T14:28:31+00:00
Yes, I want the calls to automatically find unordered_map when it can, but unordered_map is not serializable as is because its contents typedef is const even for a non const map IIRC. So I want to override just as little as I can.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-07-17T14:29:08+00:00
Doesn't compile, can't recall why right now.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-07-17T14:31:32+00:00
Looks like it was, I'll revert.

## vtnerd | 2020-07-17T19:19:02+00:00
Ok, I can take a really good guess as to whats going on here (with help from your other response).

If the type `C` is `std::map<std::string, int>` then `C::value_type` is _always_ `std::pair<const std::string, int>` regardless of the constness of `C` itself. The STL `map` and `unordered_map` containers do not allow in-place modification of the key, only the value.

The expression `*i` is going to return `std::pair<const std::string, int>` but the `serialized_map::value_type` type is `std::pair<std::string, int>` which doesn't have this same inner-constness, thus the compilation break here with the `const_cast`. However, without the `serialized_map::value_type` "hack", then [compilation will break here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/5041de8a3b48f4db5b1a7b8f454d14bd2e3759c9/src/serialization/pair.h#L64) when trying to read from the binary archive because the `.first` element is `const`.

So this PR violates const rules, but its probably not going to invoke any bugs (right now). However, this does make the template more brittle since it removes useful compile-time checks in the C++ cast (in fact, this may have introduced a bug I haven't thought of at the moment).

Arguably that section in `pair.h` should be:

```c++
...
  typename std::remove_cv<F>::type first{}; //new
  if (!::serialization::detail::serialize_pair_element(ar, first)) // modified
    return false;
  if (!ar.stream().good())
    return false;
  ar.delimit_array();
  typename std::remove_cv<S>::type second{}; // new
  if (!::serialization::detail::serialize_pair_element(ar, second)) //modified
    return false;
  if (!ar.stream().good())
    return false;
  ar.end_array();
  p = {std::move(first), std::move(second)}; // new
}
```
then:
```c++
template<typename K, typename V>
void do_add(std::map<K, V>& c, std::pair<const K, V>&& e) { c.insert(std::move(e)); }
```
OR
```c++
template<typename K, typename V, typename T>
void do_add(std::map<K, V>& c, T&& e) { c.insert(std::forward<T>(e)); }
```

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-07-18T14:48:33+00:00
The keys are not modified in the map though, I did check first.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-07-18T15:21:43+00:00
I've tried this code, but it doesn't fix, the compiler still errors out on the const_cast:

> src/serialization/container.h:103:66: error: invalid const_cast from type ‘std::pair<const crypto::public_key, cryptonote::rpc_payment::client_info>*’ to type ‘serializable_unordered_map<crypto::public_key, cryptonote::rpc_payment::client_info>::value_type*’ {aka ‘std::pair<crypto::public_key, cryptonote::rpc_payment::client_info>*’}

Could be another brick needing changing.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-07-18T15:27:01+00:00
I used std::forward as per your comment above. It originally did not compile with std::move IIRC. std::forward is fine.

## vtnerd | 2020-07-24T17:41:23+00:00
> The keys are not modified in the map though, I did check first.

Yes, this should all be legal because the map itself isn't being modified. Dropping to a C-cast means the template code has less checks now and in the future though.

> I've tried this code, but it doesn't fix, the compiler still errors out on the const_cast:

I forgot to mention the part where `serialize_unordered_map` type should removed entirely for this to work - the `value_type` specified is incorrect for the `const_cast`. The quickest way to test would be to comment out the `value_type` `typedef` in `serialize_unordered_map`. If that line can be commented out, the specialized map types are not needed for serialization.

As a recap, `value_type` specified by map types have a `const` key, which caused a compilation error in the `std::pair` serialization code. The new map (`serialized_unordered_map` ...) types specified a `value_type` without a `const` key to fix that issue, but then broke the `const_cast` here. Changing the few lines in the `std::pair` serialization should mean that both of those other changes (C-cast and custom map types with a different `value_type`) should no longer be needed.

## vtnerd | 2020-07-24T19:30:23+00:00
I tried (unsuccessfully) to describe this earlier - the usage of `std::forward` here should work, but isn't the intended usage. The usage here should be the equivalent to a `std::move`. Only the `T&&` cases should use `std::forward`. The difference is that `template<typename T> foo(T&& arg)` undergoes ["reference collapsing"](http://thbecker.net/articles/rvalue_references/section_08.html) when `foo` is called, as part of the algorithm to compute `T`. The `const`ness and reference for the argument isn't computed with `K` and `V` here (in this PR).

Example:
```c++
template<typename T> foo(T&&);

int main()
{
  foo(std::string{}); // T -> std::string

  std::string one;
  foo(one); // T -> std::string&

  const std::string two;
  foo(two); // T -> const std::string&
}
```
whereas `std::pair<K, V>&&` is fixed to move/temporaries of type `std::pair` only.

## vtnerd | 2020-07-24T19:46:53+00:00
It just occurred to me that isn't perfect-forwarding because `T` has to match on two template arguments. Typically the second argument would be a `U&&` because it gives the caller more flexibility (an actual universal reference). I guess this can be left as-is, but the code+compiler might infuriate someone if they aren't looking closely when making changes to the serialization stuff.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-07-24T20:26:25+00:00
How about you just patch it instead of hoping I type the expected code by chance since I know nothing of this ? :)

## UkoeHB | 2020-07-26T02:07:24+00:00
Learned about [perfect forwarding](https://eli.thegreenplace.net/2014/perfect-forwarding-and-universal-references-in-c) today. What you say makes sense vtnerd. @moneromooo-monero it seems like you could replace `std::forward->std::move` since `std::forward` will always return an r-value reference (i.e. it will always be passed an r-value reference). An example why an l-value can't be passed into `e`:
```
#include <iostream>
#include <utility>

void print(int &x)
{
	std::cout << x << " l-value print\n";
}

void print(int &&x)
{
	std::cout << x << " r-value print\n";
}

template <typename T>
void example(T &x, T &&y)
{
	std::cout << x << '\n';		//for compiler warning
	print(std::forward<T>(y));
}

template <typename T>
void example2(T &&x)
{
	std::cout << x << '\n';		//for compiler warning
	print(std::forward<T>(x));
}

int main()
{
	int x{3};

	example(x,4);	  //r-value print
	//example(x,x);  //error, no matching function; special type-deduction rule doesn't apply
	example2(x);	  //l-value print, special type-deduction rule applies
	example2(4);	  //r-value print

	return 0;
}
```

## UkoeHB | 2020-07-26T19:34:48+00:00
vtnerd might it be better to keep `std::forward` if it reflects the intended behavior of `do_add`? e.g. if there were an overloaded version that accepted l-values, would they be forwarded or moved?
```
//like this?
template <typename K, typename V> void do_add(serializable_map<K, V> &c, std::pair<K, V> &e) { c.insert(e); } //forwarded
template <typename K, typename V> void do_add(serializable_map<K, V> &c, std::pair<K, V> &e) { c.insert(std::move(e)); } //moved
```
EDIT: Maybe I answered my own question... An overload for l-values would be explicit about its behavior (pass a reference along, or convert to an r-value), so the r-value variants should also be explicit. In other words, `std::move()` is more clear.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2020-06-25T13:23:58+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-08-27T09:54:40+00:00
