---
title: BlockchainDB Rework transactions to improve thread safety
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6401
author: omartijn
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-03-24T16:42:17+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-06-15T14:44:16+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2020-04-17T17:25:02+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This is a large PR, which fixes a number of issues.

- the mdb_cursors struct was cast to an array, which is technically undefined behaviour
- the m_writer variable was not atomic, nor protected by a lock, resulting in possible race conditions
- some functions called mutliple functions without an overarching transaction (inconsistent view)

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2020-03-26T13:25:43+00:00
Are those actually necessary ? They cause a very large amount of possibly spurious diffs.

## selsta | 2020-03-26T14:48:03+00:00
typo?

## selsta | 2020-03-26T14:48:14+00:00
also here?

## vtnerd | 2020-03-26T20:03:02+00:00
Do these need to be `std::string`? This could be `static constexpr std::array<const char*, 18>`, preventing the need for any runtime initialization. The return value would be `const char*` too, I'm not seeing `std::string` required usage anywhere. Its looks like its being used either as a C-string to LMDB or an error temp `std::string`.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-26T20:12:32+00:00
Since your cleaning this up already ... several lines can throw (including each log statement), making this call exception unsafe. There's `epee::on_scoped_exit` (which can be re-written to not allocate) that would do that, or a couple of other usual techniques.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-26T20:29:28+00:00
Yes, there appears to be lots of re-written code unrelated to things commented on above. The re-writes appear to be mostly good. I've tended to avoid churning/rewriting the DB code because of the risk, but it could use some love. The refactoring appears to be "on the edges" so to speak, and not modifying the bulk of the processing code.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-26T23:16:00+00:00
Also exception unsafe.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-27T01:57:50+00:00
Wouldn't the `nullptr`s indicate this?

## vtnerd | 2020-03-27T02:37:51+00:00
Aren't these three lines used somewhere else? Is there a function for this?

## vtnerd | 2020-03-27T03:07:24+00:00
Just use `std::atomic` for this.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-27T03:08:30+00:00
Can save some typing in the future by doing `uint8_t(cursor)`.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-27T03:18:52+00:00
Should a temp value `m_txn` value be given to this function? It seems fairly iffy - a second thread is blocked inside of the (eventual) LMDB call but is using the variable that the active writer thread is using. It _probably_ works, assuming LMDB has a full-fence inside somewhere, but ...

## vtnerd | 2020-03-27T03:22:51+00:00
I notice a `std::current_exception()` which clearly indicates this is designed to grab errors as the stack is being unwound. But this function also potentially throws on the last two lines, so this will need to be an empty `try{} catch {}` to prevent an immediate process abortion.

## hyc | 2020-03-27T04:06:42+00:00
LMDB write txns are fully serialized, there can be no race here.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-27T05:36:45+00:00
I know they are serialized, my comment was on re-using the same `&m_txn` in use by the other thread. If LMDB "touches" the memory for this value before the other thread releases the writer lock, then its racy. Maybe LMDB doesn't do that, but this seems to rely on a specific internal implementation.

## hyc | 2020-03-27T06:54:16+00:00
You have just described a race condition. I have just told you there is no race condition; that is a contract of the LMDB API.

## omartijn | 2020-03-27T08:01:14+00:00
This one isn't strictly necessary, but given that the _cursors_ have been changed from a struct to an actual array (to fix the undefined behaviour caused from the cast that happened there), I believe it makes sense to change this one as well to keep some uniformity between working with databases and cursors.

Also: The old code had a lot of repeated "open the database, do error handling"-code. To me, at least, abstracting that logic out is an improvement in its own right. If that is not an opinion you and others share with me I can of course undo this change.

## omartijn | 2020-03-27T08:26:23+00:00
Indeed, fixed.

## omartijn | 2020-03-27T08:26:24+00:00
Indeed, fixed.

## omartijn | 2020-03-27T08:28:39+00:00
It's not really necessary indeed. I did it this way mainly because it's only initialized _once_ in any case (so there shouldn't be a measurable run-time overhead. I'll change the array type to a `const char*`.

## omartijn | 2020-03-27T08:59:36+00:00
The simplest (and safest) way is probably to use an `std::mutex` and `std::unique_lock` (or their boost equivalents). That way the destructor of `std::unique_lock` will ensure the lock is released.

Ignoring the possible exceptions thrown from logging, however, I wonder what the correct course of action would be here. If the environment is resized and `mdb_env_set_mapsize` fails then we cannot use lmdb at that point (because another process may be writing outside of our allotted map size). This would mean that even if we correctly release the lock here, we'd be left in an unusable state (the next call will probably fail again with MDB_MAP_RESIZED).

Does it make sense to retry a failing `mdb_env_set_mapsize`?

## omartijn | 2020-03-27T09:03:08+00:00
I'm unsure why you're referencing this line specifically. The `wait_no_active_txns` doesn't _prevent_ anything, it merely waits until all transactions stop on their own accord. How can that be transaction unsafe? The `wait_no_active_txns` could easily be marked `noexcept` itself (just as all the remaining member functions on `mdb_txn_safe` for that matter).

## omartijn | 2020-03-27T09:12:41+00:00
No. There are basically three states when it comes to read cursors:

1. Not initialized (a nullptr)
2. Created using the current transaction (not a nullptr)
3. Created using an aborted transaction (not a nullptr)

State 3 is useful because it allows us to _re-use_ a cursor that was previously allocated for us by LMDB. However, since 2 and 3 both have a read cursor that is not a nullptr we need something to distinguish between these two states.

From [the LMDB documentation for mdb_cursor_renew](http://www.lmdb.tech/doc/group__mdb.html#gac8b57befb68793070c85ea813df481af):

> Renew a cursor handle.
> 
> A cursor is associated with a specific transaction and database. Cursors that are only used in read-only transactions may be re-used, to avoid unnecessary malloc/free overhead. The cursor may be associated with a new read-only transaction, and referencing the same database handle as it was created with. This may be done whether the previous transaction is live or dead.

This feature was already used by the `blockchain_db`, however, since I needed to change the `mdb_txn_cursors` struct to use a real array to fix the UB, I also changed the read flags to a real array (in this case an `std::bitset` because it's more-or-less an array of bools).

## omartijn | 2020-03-27T10:04:11+00:00
It used to be part of the `mdb_txn_safe` constructor, which is no longer used. I've abstracted it into its own function and added it to read transactions as well.

## omartijn | 2020-03-27T10:06:37+00:00
Sounds like a plan. This does yield the question of when and where we use boost-specific equivalents over the standard library. There is quite a lot of code using `boost::shared_ptr`, for example, which might just as well use `std::shared_ptr`. Is this only for legacy reasons?

I know that `boost::thread` is an exception, because it has some functionality that `std::thread` does not, which we actively use. Is that the case for other things as well?

## omartijn | 2020-03-27T10:25:37+00:00
Note: I had to also change `boost::thread::id` to `std::thread::id` to be able to use it with `std::atomic`.

## omartijn | 2020-03-27T10:30:36+00:00
I was unaware of this syntax. It does sound useful indeed. I'll remember this for when I need it.

## omartijn | 2020-03-27T10:43:40+00:00
Interesting point. Isn't the fact that logging can throw a potentially really big problem in our code-base? We do seem to log from destructors in many other places which basically means these can potentially throw as well, which is rather iffy.

I fixed it here, also because the `release()` can throw if committing the transaction fails.

## hyc | 2020-03-27T14:55:48+00:00
The main reason we used boost::thread, originally, was because std::thread was broken on Windows, back in gcc 4.x days. I'm not sure that reason still applies.

## hyc | 2020-03-27T14:56:49+00:00
Was unfamiliar with that myself. Not sure it's worth using something that the rest of people don't recognize.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-03-27T15:08:37+00:00
Where is that cast to array ?

## vtnerd | 2020-03-27T15:34:48+00:00
Moo has been adding empty catch blocks in some places. It kind of stinks because you can't even notify an error, unless its a double catch or a `noexcept` function. The more likely case is a throw from `release(...)` though.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-27T16:03:19+00:00
I never answered your first question. Yes, a `noexcept` log function could be useful because its more intuitive even if logging in a destructor fails. Big uphill battle on that  though.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-27T16:05:43+00:00
I take that back, it should be a matter of wrapping the call in a catch block. The issue is that it would return an error code that isn't checked anywhere. And there are cases where nothing could be done on error anyway (which is basically what this is about).

## vtnerd | 2020-03-28T20:20:45+00:00
The documentation doesn't indicate when the out pointer is touched. Sounds like its guaranteed to be after any other thread has completed its work.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-28T20:21:29+00:00
Might want to continue using `boost::atomic<boost::thread::id>` then.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-28T20:22:07+00:00
I know how the cursors work, but I hadn't read the relevant code that used this, so made the cardinal sin of commenting too early.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-28T20:28:28+00:00
The scheme is actually a reader_writer_lock, but it might take some refactoring to get there. This is also (basically) guaranteed to be a user-space spinlock, but everyone has differing opinions on those.

## hyc | 2020-03-28T21:00:13+00:00
Of course, because doing *anything* else would constitute a race condition.

# Action History
- Created by: omartijn | 2020-03-24T16:42:17+00:00
- Closed at: 2020-04-17T17:25:02+00:00
