---
title: Rust bindings
source_url: https://github.com/MrCyjaneK/monero_c/pull/67
author: sneurlax
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2024-10-10T22:10:02+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-05-01T05:02:52+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2025-05-01T05:02:52+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Proof of concept Rust bindings.  TODO:
- [x] Prove actual wallet usage (gen. seed or similar)
- [x] Rust wrapper structure(s) around the C FFI (*eg.* a struct to store a wallet with the C pointer)
- [x] Convert example from a bin to a lib
- [x] Add unit tests
- [x] Add docs tests
- [x] Add integration tests
- [x] Improve error handling: add `get_status`
- [ ] Finish wrapping bindings
  - [ ] At minimum wrap all functions listed by binarybaron [here](https://github.com/binarybaron):
    - [x] get_address(&self, account_index: u32) -> GetAddress;
    - [x] get_balance(&self, account_index: u32) -> GetBalance;
    - [x] create_account(&self, label: String) -> CreateAccount;
    - [x] get_accounts(&self, tag: String) -> GetAccounts;
    - [x] open_wallet(&self, filename: String) -> WalletOpened;
    - [x] close_wallet(&self) -> WalletClosed;
    - [x] create_wallet(&self, filename: String, language: String) -> WalletCreated;
    - [x] transfer(&self, account_index: u32, destinations: Vec<Destination>, get_tx_key: bool) -> Transfer;
    - [x] get_height(&self) -> BlockHeight;
    - [x] check_tx_key(&self, txid: String, tx_key: String, address: String) -> CheckTxKey;
    - [x] generate_from_keys(&self, filename: String, address: String, spendkey: String, viewkey: String, restore_height: u32, password: String, autosave_current: bool) -> GenerateFromKeys;
    - [x] refresh(&self) -> Refreshed;
    - [x] sweep_all(&self, address: String) -> SweepAll;
    - [ ] check_tx_key(&self) -> Version;
- [ ] Test wrappers
  - [ ] transfer
  - [ ] sweep_all
  - [ ] check_tx_key
- [x] Fix example for subsequent runs (fails when wallet file already exists)
- [ ] Address `clippy` warnings (format, etc.)

Ensure cross-platform compatibility:
- [x] Linux
- [ ] Android
- [ ] Windows
- [ ] macOS
- [ ] iOS

and so we don't overload our upstream:
- [ ] Rework PR as the addition of a git subtree of a standalone repo with a build script (preferably the upstream's)

We may also want to: (optional)
- Allow the wallet files storage path to be configured
- Add coin control
- Add hardware wallets

~~Optionally, improve the build script:~~
~~- [x] Don't clone a brand new repo, build in place (unless passed `-c|--clean`)~~
*Build script removed*

# Discussion History
## MrCyjaneK | 2024-10-11T05:13:34+00:00
all exports that come from the system should be removed, only MONERO_* bindings should be displayed there

## MrCyjaneK | 2024-10-11T05:14:52+00:00
we have a LICENSE file in the root directory ~~I've just noticed that LICENSE is also in monero.dart, let me fix that~~

## MrCyjaneK | 2024-10-11T05:19:37+00:00
```suggestion
repository = "https://github.com/MrCyjaneK/monero_c"
```

## MrCyjaneK | 2024-10-11T05:24:33+00:00
```suggestion
monero_rust = { path = ".." }
# monero_rust = { git = "https://github.com/MrCyjaneK/monero_c" }
```

According to rust docs it should be able to find the dependency on it's own in the monero_c monorepo.

## MrCyjaneK | 2024-10-11T05:29:46+00:00
We should assume that monero_c was already built and is in the release/ directory, unless there is a specific reason to rebuild it for rust? So if this is not strictly required for rust it shouldn't be built at all

```suggestion
```

## MrCyjaneK | 2024-10-11T05:32:12+00:00
first copy the {dylib,so,dll}.xz and then unxz it to not modify the release/ directory

also please use the following naming scheme for the library file, to ensure compatibility. https://github.com/MrCyjaneK/monero_c/blob/fdd92dff2d912ac2a82c8138f1002cc7fce942bc/impls/monero.dart/lib/monero.dart#L85-L91

## sneurlax | 2024-10-11T21:18:18+00:00
bindgen generates bindings.rs automatically, I'll have to check how I can limit the scope of what it binds.

## sneurlax | 2024-10-11T21:20:55+00:00
Resolved by d3059b8b0c08058d0883d6e1a0808ceb67b2d498

## sneurlax | 2024-10-11T21:22:18+00:00
Interesting, I'll have to test that

## sneurlax | 2024-10-11T21:58:25+00:00
resolved by 1e85affc00733189cf7462d921d75775269130a8

## sneurlax | 2024-10-11T23:34:29+00:00
I would/will do this, but shouldn't the script be completely removed?  Is there an alternative we can point users to quickly build or should they just refer to the main README.md?

## sneurlax | 2024-10-11T23:47:56+00:00
It is not strictly required for Rust, this was just a hack to provide a quick way to build the exact .so I'm using.  I would prefer that no building takes place at this level whatsoever

I can get it from release/ no problem, one min.

I just wonder how this will work for projects wanting to use these Rust bindings.  Will they have to include the entire monero_c repo in their project?  (Right now yes as I use bindgen to bind ../../monero_libwallet2_api_c/src/main/cpp/wallet2_api_c.h, tho there's no reason this single file couldn't be included in the crate or handled otherwise in order for it to be standalone)

Right now, consumer crates just need the lib adjacent to the binary or in ./lib relative to the crate manifest directory.  I can add ../../release as a candidate for lib paths tho, it'll be the first lib location candidate...

## sneurlax | 2024-10-11T23:51:24+00:00
a81f173168ade4ae3f3c6d2ee38d69bec9a7a2e8 adds ../../release as the first lib location candidate but doesn't remove the script.  I can just point to monero_c/README.md for building but I'd prefer some script to be available, perhaps I just need to look harder >.>

"build it according to docs or download the release from https://github.com/MrCyjaneK/monero_c/releases" might be enough.

## sneurlax | 2024-10-12T00:12:49+00:00
I patched the script IAW this request but ultimately removed the script altogether due to your comments above.  The changes have been documented

## MrCyjaneK | 2024-10-12T10:54:12+00:00
Well yeah, my "dream" was to have monero_c as a system library - but that didn't happen, so for now it is sadly "just figure out what works for you", that being said there are some standard locations to put the file in.

As for the docs I'll push updated docs today - up to this PR there were a total of 4 people building this lib, and I never updated the docs :p. Let me fix that real quick.

## MrCyjaneK | 2024-10-12T11:09:08+00:00
As for the monero_c inclusion.. that's the only way in which we could guarantee that the files are indeed correct, I am aware that this adds some overhead (and I'm sure that nobody in the flutter family is especially happy to pull C#, TS or (soon) rust code), but the way it was before, where monero_c was standalone project and monero.dart was a separate standalone project caused too many issues and created a weird update situation - where some things were updated in monero.dart, but also required monero_c to get updated (like the ledger support that @konstantinullrich is working on).

Also this caused weird dependencies to happen, for example late monero.dart v0.18.3.3 is still fully compatible with early v0.18.3.4, but breaks with later v0.18.3.4 releases... and it breaks in worst possible way - at runtime (due to different function signatures).

With a single monorepo it is easier - you have just one single git hash or tag that you need to import, (sure you can still do a version mismatch [but it's harder](https://github.com/MrCyjaneK/monero_c/blob/master/generate_checksum.sh)). If the current approach is problematic for cargo then we can figure something else out, but I believe that there are too many positive aspects and the tradeoff is essentially using a bit extra storage.

## binarybaron | 2024-10-12T17:17:21+00:00
What is preventing us from using the function from the generated bindings.rs?

## binarybaron | 2024-10-12T17:21:39+00:00
I'd make seed_offset an Option<T>, and map it to whatever the C library needs (empty string) inside the function.

## binarybaron | 2024-10-13T12:08:47+00:00
You can use the const values generated exposed by `bindings.rs` here:
```rust
pub const NetworkType_MAINNET: ::std::os::raw::c_int = 0;
pub const NetworkType_TESTNET: ::std::os::raw::c_int = 1;
pub const NetworkType_STAGENET: ::std::os::raw::c_int = 2;
```

I'd also put them in an enum.

## sneurlax | 2024-10-13T23:16:28+00:00
Nothing, I'll do that

## sneurlax | 2024-10-14T01:48:12+00:00
I thought this was an oversight, but I forgot that I switched to use `libloading` to dynamically load the C library at runtime

I'll probably switch back to static linking and bindings.rs

## sneurlax | 2024-10-15T04:15:00+00:00
Resolved by 78b1aef99f5a37ac86ecb1031a265cb7a090d1bb

## sneurlax | 2024-10-17T01:25:42+00:00
resolved by edfe554205b48b325642360dd0b2adef5f1d9955

## Im-Beast | 2025-01-05T15:11:11+00:00
You are checking WalletManager's height, but you forgot to set `MONERO_WalletManager_setDaemonAddress` before that, `Wallet_init` doesn't do that for you

## binarybaron | 2025-01-05T17:26:22+00:00
That's odd. Why are we passing on the daemon address if it is not used?

## MrCyjaneK | 2025-01-05T17:28:39+00:00
@binarybaron right, we shouldn't be checking manager's height but wallet's height instead

## binarybaron | 2025-01-06T10:16:11+00:00
I don't believe the wallet is synced properly. I sent funds to the wallet but they are not detected (balance is zero).

## MrCyjaneK | 2025-01-06T16:26:02+00:00
that's correct, because that function is asking the node about the height, and not the wallet

## binarybaron | 2025-01-06T16:47:26+00:00
How would I check how far the sync is?

## MrCyjaneK | 2025-01-07T10:48:27+00:00
[monero.Wallet_blockchainHeight()](https://github.com/MrCyjaneK/monero_c/blob/073b85ad010044fa62ed7a21bd52febef522c35a/monero_libwallet2_api_c/src/main/cpp/wallet2_api_c.h#L600)
and
https://github.com/MrCyjaneK/monero_c/blob/073b85ad010044fa62ed7a21bd52febef522c35a/monero_libwallet2_api_c/src/main/cpp/wallet2_api_c.h#L606

if the difference is zero - you are synced

## MrCyjaneK | 2025-01-07T10:49:16+00:00
also current example uses refresh, instead I would recommend using https://github.com/MrCyjaneK/monero_c/blob/073b85ad010044fa62ed7a21bd52febef522c35a/monero_libwallet2_api_c/src/main/cpp/wallet2_api_c.h#L656

# Action History
- Created by: sneurlax | 2024-10-10T22:10:02+00:00
- Closed at: 2025-05-01T05:02:52+00:00
