---
title: 'workflows: add ccache support'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6495
author: selsta
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-05-02T22:33:45+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-12-13T04:15:25+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-12-13T03:59:10+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-12-13T03:59:10+00:00'
---

# Original Description
~I’m still working on Windows.~

Done. PR is ready now.

# Discussion History
## mj-xmr | 2020-05-03T10:40:54+00:00
My humble opinion is, that 100 megabytes for Monero is at least 20 times too little. The cached files will get replaced sooner than they can ever be reused.
My estimated amount comes from the size of the build directory - about 2GB.

For the reference - there are 4 instances of the --max-size parameter.

## selsta | 2020-05-03T13:01:42+00:00
Travis also uses 100MB cache and it seems to work quite well. I can increase it a bit but Github Actions has a 5GB/repo limit.

Would you share one cache between operating systems? I didn’t do this but would this be possible?

## mj-xmr | 2020-05-03T15:41:05+00:00
Actually I've just realized, that my logic was flawed. The files, which concern ccache are object files ONLY. The large size of the build directory is the result of having so many targets linked statically, which is out of scope for ccache. To measure the real size of files getting into the cache, you may run the command:

`find . -type f -name '*.o' -exec du -ch {} + | grep total`

which yields:
`87M	total`

So 20 times - definitely not, but say 3 times would still be well below Github limits. Are there limits for processing power as well? If so, then we have to find some middle ground anyway.

As to sharing the cache between OSes - I wouldn't do it, since we're getting into a risky territory.

EDIT: and the total build size is not 2 GB, but 300 MB.

## mj-xmr | 2020-05-04T21:15:37+00:00
Please ELI5:
does the same path for all the *nix instances mean, that the exact files are shared? Or are these actually different files, whose path is just named the same way? I'm trying to settle whether you share the cached files across OSes, which shouldn't be done. Perhaps if this is the case, then changing the paths to use individual ones (per OS) would also be the cure?

## selsta | 2020-05-04T21:22:49+00:00
> does the same path for all the *nix instances mean, that the exact files are shared?

These are all separate VMs. No files are being shared between different OS or different jobs. Each of these jobs (build-macos, build-windows, build-ubuntu, libwallet-ubuntu) share one cache.

See: `restore-keys: ccache-windows-build-` for the Windows build job.

## mj-xmr | 2020-12-11T11:53:12+00:00
Was the ${{ github.sha }} suffix missing previously?

## selsta | 2020-12-11T11:54:05+00:00
I don't think so.

# Action History
- Created by: selsta | 2020-05-02T22:33:45+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-12-13T03:59:10+00:00
