---
title: 'Wallet, daemon: From ''help_advanced'' back to ''help'', and new ''apropos''
  command'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6614
author: rbrunner7
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-06-01T08:38:45+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-08-16T19:44:17+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-08-16T19:44:16+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-08-16T19:44:16+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This keeps the basic feature of PR #6127 of `help` without any arguments in the CLI wallet showing a short list of important commands instead of all commands (about 120 lines of output), but reverts its introduction of a new `help_advanced` command: The full list of CLI wallet commands is available now through `help all`.

In addition, a new `apropos` command in both CLI wallet and daemon searches all command usage strings and descriptions for a single keyword, or a number of keywords with "and" logic. Example:

    apropos transfer

In the CLI wallet this lists all variants of transfer commands. Or

    apropos multisig

lists anything that has something to do with multisig.

See also issue #6494 for some background info about the revert.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2020-06-01T10:55:38+00:00
I don't like how these things are put in console_handler, they have nothing to do with console input :/
Can you find a better place ? If it's too annoying then fair enough and it'll stay there, but it feels really iffy.

## rbrunner7 | 2020-06-01T13:22:19+00:00
Do you mean especially this keyword search functionality, or the whole `command_handler` class in general?

If the handler class stays here I think I need at least some way to get at the list of commands, to be able to search at all, wherever that will take place then.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-06-01T17:46:50+00:00
mostly the new code, but on second thought it's less ew that I felt earlier.

# Action History
- Created by: rbrunner7 | 2020-06-01T08:38:45+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-08-16T19:44:16+00:00
