---
title: 'core: move the LockedTXN class out of txpool so it may be reused'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6227
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-12-10T18:23:42+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-03-27T19:16:03+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-03-27T19:16:02+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-03-27T19:16:02+00:00'
---

# Original Description
for example, in the RPC server

# Discussion History
## tomsmeding | 2019-12-16T10:25:06+00:00
While it wouldn't make sense to access a LockedTXN concurrently, the fact that this PR makes this class accessible to non-txpool code makes the claim in the comment invalid: the BlockchainDB can (or if not now, will) definitely be accessed concurrently, for example from tx_memory_pool and Blockchain. Therefore, BlockchainDB::batch_start() could be called concurrently, which is invalid since that method is currently not thread-safe.

## tomsmeding | 2019-12-16T11:43:27+00:00
If a constructor throws, the corresponding destructor will not be called. Therefore, m_batch and m_active don't need to explicitly be initialised to false before running batch_start(); the constructor could just be an initialiser list as follows:

    LockedTXN(BlockchainDB &db):
      m_db(db),
      m_batch(m_db.batch_start()),
      m_active(false)
    {}

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-12-16T12:13:53+00:00
How about adding:

It should always be called with the txpool and blockchain locks taken, in that order.

(which might be changed later to allow for rw locks, but for now it is the case)

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-12-16T12:15:03+00:00
Fair point, I still prefer the explicit version though unless you really don't like it.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-12-16T12:18:33+00:00
I'm using the following in another patch in txpool.cpp:

```
class RPCLockedTXN
{
public:
  RPCLockedTXN(cryptonote::core &core):
    core(core)
  {
    core.lock_txpool();
    core.get_blockchain_storage().lock();
    child.reset(new cryptonote::LockedTXN(core.get_blockchain_storage().get_db()));
  }
  virtual ~RPCLockedTXN()
  {
    child.reset(nullptr);
    core.get_blockchain_storage().unlock();
    core.unlock_txpool();
  }

  void commit()
  {
    child->commit();
  }

private:
  cryptonote::core &core;
  std::unique_ptr<cryptonote::LockedTXN> child;
};

```

## tomsmeding | 2019-12-16T12:42:41+00:00
I'm not sure if I would be comfortable with access to the database being controlled by the locks on the mempool and the blockchain. It's laying a lot of burden on the programmer to know exactly what class has what responsibility, and it's stretching even further the issue that the code doesn't tell what data a mutex protects.

Having looked a little at the BlockchainLMDB implementation today, I'm somewhat more in favour of making BlockchainLMDB::batch_start(), in addition to all its other methods that are called without a running batch, thread-safe (and block if another thread already has a transaction/batch open). Then LockedTXN doesn't require changes beyond the PR as it was, I believe, and the concurrency issues are tackled on a more basic level.

## tomsmeding | 2019-12-16T12:43:40+00:00
Agreed; it's not like the explicit version does a lot of extra work.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-12-16T13:19:44+00:00
I'm not saying it should be, just that it currently is. You're free to change these constraints of course.

## hyc | 2019-12-16T14:09:02+00:00
Probably the m_batch_active flag should have been made thread-local, since the point of batch_start is to allow a thread to join an existing batch if it's already in progress. After that, merely attempting to start a new write txn would already be a blocking operation inside LMDB, which takes care of the other cases.

## tomsmeding | 2019-12-16T14:18:27+00:00
That sounds like a good idea, indeed. How about I make a PR that does that?

## tomsmeding | 2019-12-16T14:29:27+00:00
Turns out that was slightly over-eager; of course it doesn't make sense to have thread_local class members. m_batch_active could become static, but that would only allow one instance of BlockchainDB.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2019-12-10T18:23:42+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-03-27T19:16:02+00:00
