---
title: 'Wallet: Distingush amounts for a single subaddress'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6190
author: tmoravec
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-11-27T10:08:48+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-02-20T03:23:23+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-02-20T03:23:22+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-02-20T03:23:22+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Adding a new `amounts` field ot the output of `get_transfers` RPC
method. This field specifies individual payments made to a single
subaddress in a single transaction, e.g., made by this command:

    transfer <addr1> <amount1> <addr1> <amount2>

Resolves https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/6163

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-09T11:29:59+00:00
This should check whether tx_scan_info[i].error first (also below).

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-09T11:39:44+00:00
This one will fail to add the difference amount, which might be better. Admittedly a corner case due to the fact duplicate pubkeys are allowed.

## tmoravec | 2020-01-09T15:37:13+00:00
Good catch, thanks. Fixing.

## tmoravec | 2020-01-09T16:02:29+00:00
I admit that I don't follow. 

In this case, we have a larger output "replacing" a smaller one with the same pubkey. A couple of lines above, we fix the value of `tx_money_got_in_outs[tx_scan_info[o].received->index]` because of this - because both outputs' amounts have been added. 

If both outputs' (with the same pubkey) amounts have been added to `tx_money_got_in_outs`, they should have been added to the new variable `tx_amounts_individual_outs` as well. Correct? 

> Admittedly a corner case due to the fact duplicate pubkeys are allowed.

This is precisely the case of duplicate pubkeys. `kit !=  m_pub_keys.end()` in this branch.

> This one will fail to add the difference amount, which might be better.

What difference amount do you mean? What "might be better"?

Thanks :)  

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-10T13:02:03+00:00
If the new output is 1, replacing one with .2, you remove the 1, but don't seem to add .8 instead.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-10T13:06:43+00:00
And "might be better", I meant I'm not sure that adding .8 is that much better, since it does not match the actual output. Keeping 1 might be better. But nothing at all seems objectively worse.

## tmoravec | 2020-01-11T10:50:34+00:00
Got it, makes sense. Removing this whole piece of code to keep the actual output. Thanks for the clarification. 

# Action History
- Created by: tmoravec | 2019-11-27T10:08:48+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-02-20T03:23:22+00:00
