---
title: Use recent block times for unlock time
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6745
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-08-05T14:31:17+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-09-16T00:55:51+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-09-16T00:55:51+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-09-16T00:55:51+00:00'
---

# Original Description
From an original patch by TheCharlatan.

# Discussion History
## UkoeHB | 2020-08-07T12:52:04+00:00
Is removing the static cast for `time(NULL)` ok/intended here?

Also, according to the other changes in this PR `get_adjusted_time()` will return the median of the last 60 blocks' timestamps.. which should be 30 blocks ago (60 minutes ago) on average. Not the current time. Am I missing something or this broken?

One way to fix this is to estimate the current time from the median block's time.
```
//approximate the time (in UTC) of the current block based on the block that should be positioned at 1/2 of the blockchain check window, and how often blocks are produced on average
//using the median means the 'height' block author can't manipulate their timestamp to significantly affect the return value from this function
... get_adjusted_time(m_db->height()) + static_cast<uint64_t>((BLOCKCHAIN_TIMESTAMP_CHECK_WINDOW/2) * (get_ideal_hard_fork_version(height) < 2 ? DIFFICULTY_TARGET_V1 : DIFFICULTY_TARGET_V2)) ...
```
Honestly it's a bit messy, so maybe add a function. The terminology is really mixed up here since the behavior of `get_adjusted_time()` should really be in a function called `get_timestamp_check_median_time()`, and `get_adjusted_time()` should return the approximate time of the current block and call `get_timestamp_check_median_time()` internally.

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-07T13:56:57+00:00
```suggestion
  if(b.timestamp > (uint64_t)time(NULL) + CRYPTONOTE_BLOCK_FUTURE_TIME_LIMIT)
  {
    MERROR_VER("Timestamp of block with id: " << get_block_hash(b) << ", " << b.timestamp << ", bigger than local time + 2 hours");
```

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-07T14:17:36+00:00
Why was this declaration moved up 400 lines? New spot seems less appropriate based on other declarations nearby.

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-07T14:19:32+00:00
Looks like terminology confusion again, since 'adjusted_time' has been changed to mean 'median time of last 60 blocks'. Which makes the behavior here change.

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-07T14:20:35+00:00
Is this 3-parameter overload of `check_block_timestamp()` being deprecated? If so, might be nice to remove it completely.

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-07T14:21:19+00:00
Behavior change

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-07T14:22:17+00:00
Why was const removed from all of these functions?

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-07T14:24:50+00:00
Behavior change

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-08-08T09:54:59+00:00
Can't recall. It seems pointless anyway.
The whole point is to start using blockchain timestamps instead of local time. This is intended. A 30 minute delay is fine, since this is typically used to lock things long term, not for a few minutes I think ? Define broken. Adding an offset would need changing some tests IIRC, and means you might unlck too early instead of too late. Why do you think this may be needed ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-08-08T09:56:09+00:00
To make it public.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-08-08T09:56:58+00:00
I guess I could add public: and private: and keep it where it was though. Seemed a bit meh but it minimizes the diff...

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-08-08T10:01:36+00:00
Looks like it was already broken. I'm not sure why it's adding that define. The threshold really should be adjusted_time. If you can't think of why the define gets added either, I'll remove.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-08-08T10:02:56+00:00
It looks like it's still used.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-08-08T10:04:32+00:00
Looks like the same as the one above. I think I might be missing your point though, since the point of the patch is to change the behaviour. So can you expand on whether you think something else (than the addition) is wrong ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-08-08T10:04:48+00:00
Because they now call RPC.

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-08T11:49:05+00:00
By 'broken' I meant 'unintended consequences'. It sounds like the changes are intentional.

"A 30 minute delay is fine, since this is typically used to lock things long term, not for a few minutes I think ?" Presumably if someone is locking a transaction with UTC time, they are trying to be more precise than a block height lock could provide. As the PR stands, users will have to wait an extra 60mins on average for their outputs to be unlocked (relative to the unlock time).

It sounds like you are concerned about future times being used for timelock checks. What about correcting the offset by doing a minimum of the current block's block time and the median block's time + 60mins? If blocks are accelerating then the current block's time will be more accurate than the median + 60, if the current block has a future time then the median + 60 should be closer to the real time, and if blocks are decelerating then authors will have to wait a few extra minutes to spend their outputs.

Note that even without the offset someone who can manipulate the median could push it into the future up to +1hr (since block times are limited by `local_time + 2hr` according to `check_block_timestamp()`). Adding the corrected offset allows timelocked tx to be spent up to 2hrs early in the worst case, while being much closer to +/- 10mins in the typical case.

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-08T11:57:17+00:00
Not sure what you are referring to. Define?

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-08T11:58:19+00:00
Sorry, just pointing out that every use of 'adjusted_time' is really '60 mins ago on average'. Since they are all replacing 'current time' the behavior changes.

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-08T12:02:01+00:00
Ah if it's being made public that makes sense.

## sedited | 2020-08-08T12:36:33+00:00
The concern goes in both directions, faster and slower blocks, meaning both block timestamps into the future and the past. I'd argue a window of +-60 minutes is the time precission that we can provide and that it is good enough. If you lock a transaction's outputs with unix time exactly a year into the future, you get a guaranteed precision of +-60 minutes, while if you use blocks, the precision is unknown and could vary days.

Having the ability to push the median significantly would probably be at the limit of our security boundaries, since it is miners that are pushing it. I have not done any statistics on this though. 

## sedited | 2020-08-08T12:40:20+00:00
I think we should rename it to `locktime_median_time_past` or something along those lines to avoid confusion.

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-08T13:17:01+00:00
Sorry, rather than 'current block' for corrected offset it should be 'previous block + 2mins' since the current block may be under construction and we don't want to use local time.

Well, +/- 60mins might be ok, but I'm wondering why not push for even more precision if it's possible?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-08-08T14:47:21+00:00
I don't really mind either way. Let's see if other people have an opinion and I'll go with what seems the majority opinion.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-08-08T14:48:01+00:00
By define, I meant adding CRYPTONOTE_LOCKED_TX_ALLOWED_DELTA_SECONDS_V2 etc. I don't see what purpose this has.

## UkoeHB | 2020-08-08T16:57:06+00:00
Is this a Chesterton's fence? It does feel like an idea that didn't get fully fleshed out. It has been there ever since the original fork.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-08-08T17:35:22+00:00
On second thought, it doesn't hurt anything either. So as you imply, safer to keep it in at least for now.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-08-08T18:05:45+00:00
The name seems clear to me. It's getting the adjusted time from the daemon, not the current time.

## sedited | 2020-08-28T00:17:13+00:00
Can this TODO be removed now?

## xiphon | 2020-09-08T23:01:14+00:00
Agree with @UkoeHB, IMO it would be okay to return `the median time + 60mins` (i.e. `+ BLOCKCHAIN_TIMESTAMP_CHECK_WINDOW / 2 * DIFFICULTY_TARGET_V2` seconds).

## sedited | 2020-09-09T00:24:49+00:00
I'm fine with either; leaving it up to the tx creator to add an extra 60 minutes, or adding it straight into the calculation. Support seems to be in favour of adding the extra 60 minutes, so lets add it in then. It does seem more intuitive for the tx creator. 
@xiphon : What about koe's proposal to take the minimum between the last block timestamp and the median time? I have thought about it a bit and did not come up with anything that is obviously wrong or broken yet.

## xiphon | 2020-09-09T13:19:21+00:00
@TheCharlatan

> doing a minimum of the current block's block time and the median block's time + 60mins

`The current block's block time` can't be less than `the median block's time`. Taking the minimum won't have any effect.

## sedited | 2020-09-09T13:30:27+00:00
It does have an effect if you compare it to the median block time + 60 minutes (which is what koe is proposing).

## xiphon | 2020-09-09T16:22:56+00:00
Yep, i misread this. Anyway `the current block's block time` can be manipulated as well, so IMO taking minimum doesn't fix the issue.

## sedited | 2020-09-09T18:34:17+00:00
I feel similarly, so would suggest to go with just adding the extra 60 minutes to the `get_adjusted_time` calculation.

## UkoeHB | 2020-09-10T00:26:12+00:00
Taking the minimum is meant to provide better accuracy when blocks are accelerated (appearing faster than 2mins on average). If we don't take the minimum then even if all miners are honest the 'adjusted time' will be 'in the future' and locked transactions can be unlocked early (by probably only a few minutes, but still it will be a common misalignment).

Of course, the converse will be just as common, where blocks are slowing down and the adjusted time is 'in the past'. However, it is safe for locked transactions to be unlocked late. We can think about the unlock time as 'locked until _at least_ the lock time', which is harmonious with the reality of blockchains where tx authors have to wait for miners to add txs to a block (lock time of '0' means 'as soon as possible').

What about manipulation? There are a few combinations ('adjusted time' is 'median + 60', 'current time' is block timestamp, 'real time' is e.g. UTC):
1. Current time honest
a. Median low: adjusted time < current time = real time; tx unlocked up to *chain age* late or until median improves
b. Median high: adjusted time > current time = real time; [minimum: tx unlocked on time] [no minimum: tx unlocked up to 1hr early since current time >= median time is a protocol rule]
c. Median accurate: no problem, median + 60 ~= current time, ignoring local time variances
2. Current time high (capped at ~local time + 2hr by consensus)
a. Median low: adjusted time < real time < current time; tx unlocked up to *chain age* late or until median improves; current time inaccuracy has no effect
b. Median high: adjusted time & current time > real time; tx unlocked early [minimum: tx unlocked early and closest to real time possible] [no minimum: tx unlocked based on adjusted time, which may be earlier than current time]
c. Median accurate: adjusted time ~= real time < current time; no problem, tx unlocked on time
3. Current time low
a. Median low: adjusted time & current time < real time; [minimum: tx unlocked as late as possible] [no minimum: tx unlocked late]
b. Median high: current time < real time < adjusted time; [minimum: tx unlocked up to 1hr late] [no minimum: tx unlocked up to 1hr early]
c. Median accurate: current time < adjusted time ~= real time; [minimum: tx unlocked up to 1hr late] [no minimum: tx unlocked on time]

Using a minimum is a safety improvement for (1b), (2b), (3b), and an inconvenience loss for (3a), (3c). In net, an improvement to the adjusted time's safety profile. (2b) remains the only unsafe scenario, although less unsafe than without the median.

## sedited | 2020-09-10T23:54:04+00:00
I spent a bit of time going through some of the potential problems with koe's proposal and think it is safe enough to go with it. It does introduce some extra complexity though and detecting a few of the corner cases has been challenging. The proposal does allow a miner to block inclusion of a time locked transaction into the next block by setting a low timestamp of his own mined block. In the current protocol, there are no incentives or rewards gained by doing this. Given this added complexity I would like to get a bit more review here.


## UkoeHB | 2020-09-11T11:45:03+00:00
To get the adjusted time I think it should be like this:
```
// project the median to match approximately when the block being validated will appear
// the median is calculated from a chunk of past blocks, so we use +1 to project onto the current block
median_ts += (BLOCKCHAIN_TIMESTAMP_CHECK_WINDOW + 1) * DIFFICULTY_TARGET_V2 / 2;

// project the current block's time based on the previous block's time
// we don't use the current block's time directly to mitigate timestamp manipulation
uint64_t adjusted_current_block_ts = m_db->get_block_timestamp(height - 1) + DIFFICULTY_TARGET_V2;

// return minimum of ~current block time and adjusted median time
// we do this since it's better to report a time in the past than a time in the future
return (adjusted_current_block_ts < median_ts ? adjusted_current_block_ts : median_ts);
```
Note: on the odd looking +1 in `median_ts`... imagine:
1. window = 2, blocks are indexed b0, b1, b2; block b2 is being validated; median of window is at timestamp (b0 + b1)/2 = 0.5b; adding offset of window/2 means adjusted timestamp would be 1.5b so we need to add another 0.5b -> 0.5b + (window + 1)/2 = 2b
2. window = 3, blocks are indexed b0, b1, b2, b3; block b3 is being validated; median of window is at timestamp 1b; adding offset of window/2 means adjusted timestamp would be 2.5b so we need to add another 0.5b -> 1b + (window + 1)/2 = 3b

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-09-12T11:13:27+00:00
I assume adjusted_current_block_ts and previous_block_ts are the same variable here, right ?

## UkoeHB | 2020-09-12T12:33:12+00:00
Yeah fixed

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-09-12T13:34:14+00:00
Pushed with that change.

## UkoeHB | 2020-09-12T17:48:34+00:00
This comment is out of date, otherwise everything looks good.
```
     /**
     * @brief get the "adjusted time"
     *
     * Computes the median timestamp of the previous 60 blocks, projects it
     * onto the current block to get an 'adjusted median time' which approximates
     * what the current block's timestamp should be. Also projects the previous
     * block's timestamp to estimate the current block's timestamp.
     * 
     * Returns the minimum of the two projections, or the current local time on
     * the machine if less than 60 blocks are available.
     *
     * @return current time approximated from chain data
     */
```

## xiphon | 2020-09-15T02:07:12+00:00
```suggestion
  uint64_t adjusted_current_block_ts = timestamps.back() + DIFFICULTY_TARGET_V2;
```

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2020-08-05T14:31:17+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-09-16T00:55:51+00:00
