---
title: 'Adding Dandelion++ support to public networks:'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6314
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-01-31T22:47:49+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-03-13T08:04:56+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-04-17T22:48:49+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-04-17T22:48:49+00:00'
---

# Original Description
  - New flag in NOTIFY_NEW_TRANSACTION to indicate stem mode
  - Stem loops detected in tx_pool.cpp
  - Embargo timeout for a blackhole attack during stem phase

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2020-01-31T22:49:23+00:00
Reviewers may want to take notice: I hijacked `last_relayed_time` in mempool to mean "embargo timeout timestamp" when the tx is marked as Dandelion++ stem. There's some padding space that could be used instead, if preferred.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-02-01T13:22:31+00:00
That seems to be saying "relay stem txes in fluff mode on a timer". That seems wrong ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-02-01T13:31:15+00:00
I read this as "if we get a new tx in stem mode, and we already had it (also in stem mode), then broadcast as fluff. Is that correct ? Should it not do the normal thing it does when receiving a new stem tx, whether or not it already has it ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-02-01T13:33:58+00:00
That else if for hte "if (existing_tx)" right ? It seems indented off.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-02-01T14:55:41+00:00
Since last_relayed_time is the embargo timer, this seems to say you're changing the embargo timer to "never", instead of what it was the first time you received it. If this is correct, then theoretically the first relay in a stem series can tell whether a node was the originator of a tx by never relaying stem txes except once back to the sender. If the tx is not seen again within a few minutes, then that node is likely the one that originated it.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-02-01T15:04:41+00:00
Are the reserved vectors swapped w.r.t arg.dandelionpp_fluff ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-02-01T15:23:07+00:00
Why does this do so without checking the embargo timer ?

## vtnerd | 2020-02-01T17:05:52+00:00
Yikes, a tab probably slipped in here. Will fix.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-01T17:09:06+00:00
Nope, I botched this. Initially the field was called `dandelionpp_stem`, but I flipped the logic so that zero initialization of the `struct` would default to stem mode. And since this can't be easily observed through testing ... anyway will change.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-01T17:21:00+00:00
Looks like another tab snuck in here too or something. Will fix that.

This might require a bigger comment to explain. This is purely defensive programming. If someone requests stem mode over i2p/tor, the request cannot be done correctly because `on_transactions_relayed` (line 799) will put the tx in the stempool, making it eligible for broadcasting over ipv4/6 after an embargo timeout. So this was a quick hack so that "if I2P/Tor zone without white noise":

|  Requested Mode  |  New TxPool State  |
|-------------------------|--------------------------|
|           local             |            local             |
|           stem            |            fluff             |
|            fluff              |             fluff             |

Perhaps a `return false;` is better in this situation, indicating it can't work?

Also, if ipv4/6 AND local or stem requests map to Dandelion++ mode.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-02-01T19:29:13+00:00
Why would it be a problem to place an incoming tx in stem mode from i2p/tor in the txpool and fluff it after the embargo if not seen again ?

## vtnerd | 2020-02-02T00:48:02+00:00
Yes, you understood this correctly. The Dandelion++ states as footnote when describing their analysis implementation: "Our implementation enters fluff mode if there is a loop in the stem". Grin behavior is identical. Unfortunately the paper isn't specific on what to do when this occurs (its only mentioned in the footnote), but when calculating the probabilities, one of the scenarios was "the stem loops back to v, which terminates the stem". So I _think_ their analysis already takes this into account.

 The detection mode here is the most simple: if we sent as a Dandelion++ stem once, and its being re-added as a Dandelion++ stem, then mark it as a loop.

Some thoughts I have:
  * Record incoming connection uuid, and only claim loop if the recorded uuid differs? This would allow for re-attempting a stem - since each node has an independent epoch, the path may not be identical on the second attempt and might work the second time.
  * This may not be the most appropriate place (from a purely architecture view) to detect and alter stem loop behavior, but it is the easiest.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-02T00:51:01+00:00
The protocol says to relay in fluff mode when the embargo timer expires. I don't see any difficulties with mixing other older fluff txes, but maybe I need to think about it more. I **do** need to add a "sort" before sending fluff txes to hide order received and stem embargo vs fluff. I want to do this in another PR so that it can be discussed separately. 

## vtnerd | 2020-02-02T00:59:36+00:00
If sending back to the prior node in the stem, the stem loop detection will take precedence and immediately fluff. The `last_relayed_time` value is only overwritten if the relay_method change goes up in the chain of none->local->stem->fluff->block. The value will be reset in `on_transactions_relayed`, assuming the transaction makes it to the relay logic code. The only time this is prevented is when `relay_method::none`, which is indicating this value is invalid anyway.

 I _probably_ need to a filter in `cryptonote_protocol_handler.inl` that drops transactions in the stem phase on outgoing connections (only incoming connections should be sending stem transactions). This strengthens the protocol a bit (not sure of any good attacks this prevents though).

## vtnerd | 2020-02-02T01:01:44+00:00
Also, as per your attack, honest stem nodes should behave identically to the originator. So nothing should be gained by sending back. If this is incorrect somewhere, then it definitely needs to be fixed.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-02-02T15:06:50+00:00
I do not see any test for that embargo timer though.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-02-02T15:10:19+00:00
If it's in the original paper then I guess it's fine. And thinking about it, it's a difference between "Eve can force Alice to switch to fluff early" and "Eve can either sit on the tx and delay the tx, or fluff herself", so it doesn't seem too annoying.


## vtnerd | 2020-02-04T15:51:04+00:00
The embargo timer is leveraging existing logic in `get_relayable_transactions`. The filtering logic in that function now checks for the `dandelionpp_stem` flag in tx_meta, checks the embargo timer, etc. Previously it was filtering on a longer, not randomized timeout.

The name of the function is poor, because it does give the impression that it will be returning all transactions in the pool not marked as `do_not_relay`. But its filtering newish transactions that don't need to be broadcast again.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-06T14:46:09+00:00
A transaction received over i2p/tor is forwarded over public ipv4/6 in stem mode. The issue is the public interface allows a request to send transaction(s) over i2p/tor in stem mode, which should arguable be rejected (`return false`). Dandelion++ over i2p/tor requires mempool tracking the "zone" a transaction was received for the embargo timeout. I'm not aware of anything else blocking Dandelion++ over i2p/tor, but it might probably worth thinking about this mode separately. A sybil actor should already have difficulties when tracing origin IP over i2p/tor. However, Dandelion++ over i2p/tor can get interesting with white noise since it makes advanced ISP spying more difficult too.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-02-06T18:02:51+00:00
I don't understand, and I don't even know which part I don't understand here, but I'm happy enough given this is on purpose and not a mistake :)


## vtnerd | 2020-03-13T21:50:29+00:00
In the force push, this was moved here below the call to `insert_key_images` now on line 345.

Explanation:
Initially the call sequence was `remove_txpool_tx` -> `add_txpool_tx` -> `insert_key_images`. In PR 5965 I flipped `insert_key_images` -> `add_txpool_tx` because the `insert_key_images` was modified to make a DB check to get the "state" of the transaction. This was necessary because the key image check should not fail if the tx state is going from stem->fluff.

This meant that if the tx was going from stem -> fluff the tx had its metadata removed before the key images check. This was/is hard to detect via the `core_tests` because `cryptonote_core::core` will filter double spends before it even gets to this line. Txes going from stem->fluff are not filtered, which is why the error was logged.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2020-01-31T22:47:49+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-04-17T22:48:49+00:00
