---
title: Support retrieving newer txs only in light wallet REST API
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/pull/603
author: ndorf
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-08-23T01:13:26+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-01-09T03:06:50+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Currently, the light wallet REST API only supports retrieving the entire transaction history. This proposed extension to the protocol allows clients to request only those transactions newer than the ones they already know.

Two optional fields are added to the `get_address_txs` request object: `since_tx_id`, the highest transaction `id` known to the client, and `since_tx_block_hash`, the `block_hash` of the same transaction. If these fields are absent, the entire transaction history is returned, as before.

A `since_tx_id` field is also added to the response object; its value may differ from the value in the request, and clients must be sure to honor the former, by forgetting any txs with a higher `id` before processing the response.

This logic, along with the new block hash fields, allow detection and correct handling of blockchain reorgs. Upon receiving the request, the server compares the provided tx id and block_hash with the current blockchain state. If they match, then the server can simply return the newer txs, exactly as requested, and the `since_tx_id` of the response should be the same as the request. If they don't match, then the specified transaction must have been part of a blockchain reorg, in which case some or all of the previous history must be returned, and the `since_tx_id` of the response will differ from the request.

If the server keeps track of reorged blocks, and where they previously were in the blockchain, then it can return only those txs that are newer than the split. (In this case the returned `since_tx_id` should be the highest `id` in the last block common to both chains.) However, it is not obligated to do so: it can simply return the entire transaction history anytime a reorg is detected (in which case the returned `since_tx_id` should be zero.)

Requesting feedback from @vtnerd and @moneroexamples


# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2021-08-24T21:15:07+00:00
This duplicates the line above.

# Action History
- Created by: ndorf | 2021-08-23T01:13:26+00:00
