---
title: Clang build time analyser mj xmr
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6956
author: mj-xmr
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-11-01T15:38:15+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-12-11T06:42:58+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-12-11T01:32:21+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-12-11T01:32:21+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Integrated [ClangBuildAnalyzer](https://github.com/aras-p/ClangBuildAnalyzer) into utils. You can call it without any parameters from the Monero source directory with:

`utils/health/clang-build-time-analyzer-run.sh`

It will try to find the ClangBuildAnalyzer binary, and if it's not found (the initial state), it will ask the user to call a script, that clones and builds the CBA:

`utils/health/build-scripts/clang-build-time-analyzer-clone-build.sh `

I will now proceed according to the time measurements, but beware: some code will have to be moved around.

Below are some snippets from the generated report:

```
**** Files that took longest to codegen (compiler backend):
147200 ms: tests/core_tests/CMakeFiles/core_tests.dir/chaingen_main.cpp.o
114191 ms: src/wallet/CMakeFiles/obj_wallet.dir/wallet2.cpp.o
 94273 ms: src/rpc/CMakeFiles/obj_rpc.dir/core_rpc_server.cpp.o
 78506 ms: src/wallet/CMakeFiles/wallet_rpc_server.dir/wallet_rpc_server.cpp.o

*** Expensive headers:
168138 ms: /tmp/monero/monero/contrib/epee/include/storages/portable_storage.h (included 82 times, avg 2050 ms), included via:
  load_from_binary.cpp.o portable_storage_template_helper.h  (3539 ms)
  load_from_json.cpp.o portable_storage_template_helper.h  (3526 ms)
  ...

155623 ms: /tmp/monero/monero/contrib/epee/include/storages/portable_storage_template_helper.h (included 79 times, avg 1969 ms), included via:
  load_from_binary.cpp.o  (3571 ms)
  load_from_json.cpp.o  (3561 ms)
  ...

147344 ms: /tmp/monero/monero/src/cryptonote_core/cryptonote_core.h (included 48 times, avg 3069 ms), included via:
  node_server.cpp.o  (6755 ms)
  rpc_handler.cpp.o  (6363 ms)
  ...

127540 ms: /tmp/monero/monero/src/cryptonote_basic/cryptonote_basic.h (included 121 times, avg 1054 ms), included via:
  hardfork.cpp.o  (2484 ms)
  tx_sanity_check.cpp.o  (2460 ms)
  account.cpp.o account.h  (2241 ms)
  ...
```


[And the full report is here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/files/5471196/cba-result.txt)


# Discussion History
## xiphon | 2020-11-01T16:18:38+00:00
I would check the actual compiler in use e.g. `CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER_ID MATCHES "Clang"` and print `FATAL_ERROR` if it doesn't meet the requirements.

Also `USE_COMPILATION_TIME_PROFILER` sounds better to me. Kinda subjective though.


## mj-xmr | 2020-11-01T17:08:48+00:00
Makes sense. Done!

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-11-01T20:01:57+00:00
This is going to swap storm more than one person I think.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-11-01T20:03:06+00:00
It's really not clear from the script name that this actually gets some code from an external souce and executes stuff from it. Is this program not in common package repos ?

## mj-xmr | 2020-11-02T05:37:12+00:00
What do you mean by this and what would be the proposed change?
Just "make"?

## mj-xmr | 2020-11-02T05:39:45+00:00
It is not.
What do you propose to do? Keep a checked out source in Monero project? Set it as a submodule, even though it's optional? 
How would you name the script?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-11-02T12:47:20+00:00
Building in /tmp when modern systems are typically set with tmpfs on /tmp will gobble up RAM until the system runs out of memory and swaps all the time.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-11-02T12:49:38+00:00
If people want to use it, they download it. I really hate when build rules fetch stuff and run it. Submodule would be definitely better. At least you checkout a particular commit hash, but even then it feels iffy. Anyway, maybe others are less weirded out by this.

## xiphon | 2020-11-02T12:50:05+00:00
Maybe just add CMake support and document all the steps required in `README.md` and we are good?

## xiphon | 2020-11-02T12:53:49+00:00
Ah, or you could implement a Dockerfile instead. I would prefer this tbh.

## mj-xmr | 2020-11-02T18:06:50+00:00
> Maybe just add CMake support and document all the steps required in `README.md` and we are good?

I think I will go this way, since I have 0 knowledge about Docker as of now. 
I didn't quite understand what you meant by CMake support in this particular case.

## mj-xmr | 2020-11-02T18:09:43+00:00
> If people want to use it, they download it. I really hate when build rules fetch stuff and run it. Submodule would be definitely better. At least you checkout a particular commit hash, but even then it feels iffy. Anyway, maybe others are less weirded out by this.

I only thought I'd make it easier. 
How about keeping the script (after the /tmp changes above) and just pointing the user to it, if he needs to use it? I can tell you from my experience, that if something is not "auto", people will not use it. I personally know how to use it without the script.



## mj-xmr | 2020-11-02T18:42:03+00:00
Building now in a local build directory, which is afterwards cleaned.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-11-02T19:06:28+00:00
Having the script and making it very clear it will download/run stuff would be OK I think.

## mj-xmr | 2020-11-02T19:09:43+00:00
This branch is not needed anymore.

# Action History
- Created by: mj-xmr | 2020-11-01T15:38:15+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-12-11T01:32:21+00:00
