---
title: 'Monero/Sekreta/Kovri: "to cover secret coin"'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6276
author: anonimal
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-12-31T23:58:28+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-09-14T19:46:50+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2020-09-14T19:30:53+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Well, that's a loose translation, after all.

In this commit, you'll find a WIP for anonymous network transactions.

On Sekreta/Kovri:

  - Implement Sekreta/Kovri within monero-wallet-cli and monerod (RPC server)

    * monero-wallet-cli, as a startup parameter:

      `monero-wallet-cli --wallet-file file --sekreta kovri --daemon-host wqr5kmjdpvnlcg7mzlg6bqin3izawq2226gxq4bacgxiy4aeoprq.b32.i2p`

      - See `monero-wallet-cli --help` for details

    * monero-wallet-cli, from within the wallet:

      - See `help sekreta` for details

    * monerod:

      - See `help sekreta` within the daemon for details
      - Note: P2P is a WIP

    * You can control the daemon's Sekreta instance from either the CLI wallet
      or through the daemon itself. You can also use a monero-wallet-cli Sekreta
      instance on its own, from within the wallet, to be used with remote nodes.

      Note: you currently can't run both instances at the same time if both
      binaries are simultaneously running on localhost.

  - System extensibility:

    * At this time, Monero's implementation of Sekreta currently offers Kovri.
      By design, Sekreta is extensible and can (should) support any desired
      anonymity system. Because Monero shouldn't be "stuck" with a single set of
      anonymity options, any systems not listed in Sekreta's TODOs should be
      feature requested and should be added.

  - WIP:

    * Unfinished, experimental, or otherwise WIP code has been largely stripped
      from this commit and Sekreta (so moneromooo doesn't have a heart attack).

    * For further implementation ideas, see Sekreta tests/benchmarks/docs.

 - Adheres to the C4 Code of Conduct:

    "Patch requirements":

      - Compiles cleanly and passes project self-tests on at least the principle
        target platform (Linux).

      - Sekreta/Kovri is an accurate answer to the identified and agreed
        upon problem of lacking anonymous internet transactions at the IP layer.

      - Sekreta/Kovri is an accurate answer to the identified and agreed
        upon problem of lacking a unified public API contract to be used
        with Kovri and other internet anonymity systems.

    "Evolution of Public Contracts":

      - All public contracts are documented within the APIs.
      - All public contracts have space for extensibility and experimentation.
      - All public contracts do not break existing applications.
      - All additions to public contracts use new names.
      - No existing public contracts are removed.

    "Licensing and ownership":

      - All patches are owned by their authors. There is no copyright assignment
        process.

      - The copyrights in the project is owned collectively by all its
        contributors.

      - Apache 2.0, and the derivative Sekreta License 1.0, are both compatible
        with the GPLv3 license and, in turn, meet the compatibility requirements
        of both the C4 Code of Conduct and BSD-3 license - both of which govern
        Monero.

On the build:

  - The Makefile build options are currently separated from the main release
    build (as is the entire implementation). See the `#if defined(SEKRETA)`
    section below for details.

  - The MiniUPnP build fixes/enchancements are required for integration.
    The updated git-submodule location will only be temporary until
    monero-project/miniupnp merges my pull request (my fork of Monero's fork).

  - The final solution to the packaging question is a WIP. This applies to any
    number of underlying systems. For now, CMake install targets will handle
    everything (see the Sekreta README.md)

On socket-based tunnels:

  The following idioms are commonly used among popular anonymous overlay network
  technologies. If you understand the concept of "hidden services", you'll
  understand the following:

  Client:

    Monero uses Sekreta to create an anonymity "path" toward an anonymity address.
    In this case, to a .b32 or .i2p address via a Kovri "client tunnel". This
    path then binds to a port on your local interface (SEK_RPC_DEFAULT_PORT).
    This port then serves to pipe any data sent through it to the given anonymity
    system which send it to the given anonymity address (in this case, a Monero
    RPC transaction through Kovri).

    By using this approach, Monero can easily create a client tunnel on-the-fly
    on a **per-transaction basis** - providing a completely fresh set of
    inbound/outbound tunnels for each transaction. This concept is akin to using
    a different Tor circuit for each website you visit over the Tor network (see
    Tor spec prop 171 "Separate streams across circuits by connection metadata").

    An additional benefit of having these ports bound to a local interface
    is that any local application can use said port to reach the monero node.
    This allows flexibility to use multiple RPC implementations over the same
    network, etc.

  Server:

    Monero uses Sekreta to create an anonymity "path" toward its local
    anonymity address. In this case, to a .b32 or .i2p address via a Kovri
    "server tunnel". This path "virtually" binds, transparently, to an existing
    bound port on your local interface (monerod P2P port). No traditional socket
    "binding" actually occurs but, rather, the system sends the data to the
    existing bound port from that virtual path.

  Note: this type of implementation was chosen because of the unfortunate fact
  that Boost.Asio **cannot** do any async i/o without binding to a socket (as
  far as I can tell). This is a disappointing "feature" but there's no easy
  side-step: to implement a pure asyc abstraction with Kovri (without binding to
  a socket) would require a burdensome re-write within Kovri.

On `#if defined(SEKRETA)`:

  Engineers are all too familiar with this wonderful tool of yester-year. The
  pre-processor has many purposes but I would like to spend a few moments
  describing both the *intention* of this particular directive and the power of
  the pre-processor as it applies to this commit.

  - Innovation: this pre-processor directive allows parallel development of
    Sekreta, Kovri, and any supported anonymity system with ZERO risk to the
    security or functionality of Monero development or regular Monero releases.
    By staying "out of the way" while allowing seamless integration, innovative
    ideas can relish in a testbed of globally available ideas.

  - Community: as I had envisioned (and worked toward) as far back as 2015, when
    helping to lay some of the earliest foundations of Monero Project; I had
    hoped Monero would become a privacy ecosystem and not simply a
    cryptocurrency. The ecosystem has certainly grown, but it's time to take
    this concept to a new level. A pre-processor directive removes the problem
    of currency exchange for intellectual property by facilitating an
    all-inclusive environment for researchers and developers on a no-cost basis.

  - Decentralization: by providing a means for developers to work safely on
    features and enhancements without negative consequences, a pre-processor
    directive allows the Monero (or any) codebase to become more decentralized
    and resilient against authoritarianism/corrupt democracies (I'm not implying
    that either are the case right now). This results in a win-win for privacy,
    anonymity, and developers.

  - Security: bad actors have many tools in their arsenal. One of these tools
    is to incite dissent within internet communities as a means to divide and
    conquer. To sway the opinion of the collective consciousness, as a means to
    disrupt and destroy, is a time-tested technique and is not only stupidly
    easy to accomplish but is also incredibly cheap too.

    In order to fight these tactics, we must not only allow but also encourage
    innovative and experimental collaboration in *all* language settings; not
    just in theory and mathematics but also in practical application. And we
    must also not keep ideas in the basement: we must base our development upon
    empirical data; as this is one of the strongest means to squelch the
    opinions of bad actors. *That* is how a simple pre-processor directive can
    help maintain all of our internet freedoms.

  - Feelings: good actors and bad actors, whether consciously or subconsciously,
    all capitalize on the emotions of others in order build a sense of
    camaraderie which, in turn, builds potentially healthy egos. By allowing
    developers to feel "a part" of something bigger than themselves, they are
    more inclined to work on that something - and make that something bigger.
    This, in essence, is the spirit of "community"; and this pre-processor
    directive captures just that (as described above in "Community:").

  - "Don't like it? Fork it.": outside of the popular fork-and-pull method of
    collaboration, in which the end result benefits the codebase being pulled
    from, this common tactic is yet another divisive strategy used to disrupt
    the bonding of talent within human communities. By capitalizing on the
    average social tendencies of the average software enthusiast, a bad actor
    can manipulate the progression of positive group-think into a soupy mess of
    demoralization and lower averages. This is a side-effect/weakness of
    decentralization but the power of this pre-processor directive can prevent
    a full-blown "divide and conquer".

  - Component-friendly: if Sekreta goes unmaintained for more than N months, or
    the security of Sekretari can never be proven, I (or anyone) will personally
    remove the work with no negative affect to the build.

  In short, so long as the code is not backdoored nor intentionally made
  vulnerable, value judgment must not be passed onto these code contributions
  (as described by the C4). This is not only for the benefit of all but also so
  a developer's work can be fully nurtured into fruition. A pre-processor
  directive ultimately makes these development transitions easier to manage.

On Kovri, specifically:

  - To clarify: Sekreta *is* the API for Kovri and Monero. Even if Sekretari was
    completed and implemented, there is no requirement to use Sekretari nor any
    Sekreta subsystem within Monero: a client application can simply use the
    Sekreta/Kovri API on its on. Once more systems are implemented, there will
    be no requirement to use Kovri either.

  - To my disappointment and dismay, while working on this integration, it
    appears that no one else has contributed to Kovri code development. As a
    result, the router has begun to fall into disarray. Even since 2015, nearly
    no one from the community has provided code work to even a fraction of what
    I've done in return for Monero Project. More importantly, all those years of
    mentoring and teaching Kovri contributors; and none of them have effectively
    returned the favor.

    Though the router had been working throughout integration development,
    recent upstream changes have prevented the router from working as expected.
    If no one is going to help, then the Kovri updates required may not make it
    into this commit. I simply can't do everything, nor should I do everything
    for a technology that should be as decentralized as possible.

    In other words, the router isn't currently working as needed even though the
    APIs are in working condition. If the router worked at the moment,
    transactions would be sent/received.

On known issues:

  - The hiccups/stalling you'll see when starting the monero-wallet-cli from the
    shell, or `set_daemon` from within the wallet, are a result of the
    aforementioned Kovri issues, not Sekreta or Monero. Monero can reduce the
    timeout setting, but that shouldn't be necessary (and actually I advise
    against that and instead providing better logging).

  - As noted in the TODOs: this commit is for a single-system only but
    that should only be temporary.

  - For runtime details not listed in the `status` command, see the logs
    in your Kovri data directory.

With all of that said, there is plenty of room for improvement. TODOs have been
noted in all affected codebases and pull requests will be warmly greeted.

I surely can't do this alone, your help is needed. 2020 will be a time of
securing some of the needed proofs for Sekretari, so I will be busy with that.
Plans are also made to collaborate with at least one of the well-known community
mathematician/intellectual extraordinaire whom I've maintained contact with.
Others have also expressed their desire for code collaboration, so I'm looking
forward to having more streamlined development. Regardless, your help is needed
and will be appreciated and recognized.

Happy new year.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-01T17:04:30+00:00
This will have to be PRed first.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-01T17:05:39+00:00
That should be an else.

Also, nowhere else do we use GNU indentation, it is quite jarring tbh.


## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-01T17:20:21+00:00
The "G" variants are for "use the predefined global category". You want MINFO_GREEN so it uses the rpc category from this file.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-01T17:29:12+00:00
boost::bind(&simple_wallet::on_command, this, &simple_wallet::sekreta, _1),

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-01T17:30:08+00:00
Is this useful ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-01T17:42:15+00:00
is_local_address now detects .onion and .i2p suffixes. If that is not enough, is there a set of suffixes or known formats that would be enough, or can the address be just "127.0.0.1:12345" and yet be a bridge to the outside ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-22T14:36:06+00:00
So if I undersand correctly, this will actually pull that repo and build it. Is that correct ? If so, it needs to checkout some known hash, not a tag, since tags can be changed at a whim by upstream. Not that hashes are super secure given they're SHA-1 but at least it's better.

## rj76 | 2020-01-22T15:11:37+00:00
I have been running monerod with these changes and kovri/sekreta for some weeks now without any problems. 

I'm especially curious, as it's the user's choice to use this specific functionality, why not to merge. A lot of work has been put into this. 

## chamajcpradel | 2020-02-11T03:20:20+00:00
Anonimal I will like to see the LokiNet supported. I have learned that the Loki software is a competitor to the Monero
LGTM

## vtnerd | 2020-02-11T20:11:04+00:00
Somehow my comment got saved but not posted -

@rj76 your comments are unhelpful for the review comment posted by @moneromooo-monero . This portion of cmake should definitely be referencing a hash instead of a tag for security purposes, particularly since the project is outside of the `monero-project` group.

Additionally (and my apologies @moneromooo-monero for hijacking this comment), this PR looks like its injecting a Kovri router directly into `monerod`. Hopefully this is not the case, because this is a large design decision that I don't recall ever being discussed.

# Action History
- Created by: anonimal | 2019-12-31T23:58:28+00:00
- Closed at: 2020-09-14T19:30:53+00:00
