---
title: 'tests: fix HF12 chaingen'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6110
author: ph4r05
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-11-08T16:39:51+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-01-17T15:30:01+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-01-12T02:08:50+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-01-12T02:08:50+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Currently, the `chaingen.cpp` does not support generating testing block chain with the HF12, which uses RandomX. The problem is that the miner function requires blockchain object to get certain block hashes.

I've created a simple workaround which extracts the block and hardforks from the `events` list. If caller needs to build HF12 blocks, he should set events and network type for the blockchain object. 

It is initial implementation of a working fix, it is not optimal as the blockchain object is constructed with each new block (if HF>=12), but this is robust as there is no need to maintain blockchain db consistency with the tests, it is just created from events when needed.

What do you think?

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2019-11-13T13:20:25+00:00
Is there a case where this is needed ? There are always test_options in core_tests (possibly empty, but in all cases the blocks have to match it).

## ph4r05 | 2019-11-13T13:25:16+00:00
For the blockchain object construction I need to specify the hard forks so I extract the information from the `events`. In the `init_blockchain` I have no access to `test_options` specified in `core_tests` so I am using this approach.

In the Trezor tests I stored hard fork as a specific event (for some reason). As a fallback for tests not doing that I am reconstructing the hard forks from the blocks stored in the `events`.

## moneromooo-monero | 2019-11-13T13:28:54+00:00
OK. Thanks for taking the time to find out and explain.

# Action History
- Created by: ph4r05 | 2019-11-08T16:39:51+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-01-12T02:08:50+00:00
