---
title: 'ANONYMITY_NETWORKS.md : add tor example.'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6176
author: jonathancross
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-11-24T00:47:22+00:00'
updated_at: '2019-12-03T21:04:59+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2019-11-25T15:33:15+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2019-11-24T01:59:20+00:00
You shouldn't need this option. The Tor daemon will forward to the internal Monero daemon port.

## vtnerd | 2019-11-24T02:03:19+00:00
I would expand on the "eg on a VPS". This configuration allows someone to run a node at home without any port forwarding, static dns or dyndns. Eventually full-scan mobile wallets like CakeWallet could connect to a home daemon this way with nothing more than the onion address.

## jtgrassie | 2019-11-24T06:06:57+00:00
This whole section/example is about connecting to a remote daemon over Tor. The rest of the document is specifically about how your _daemon_ can broadcast transactions to other _daemons_ on the network over tor/i2p. They have different (although related) use cases. I'm not against adding this instruction in, just concerned it is not calling this dissection out enough. This whole section doesn't even include what the rest of document is outlining.

## jtgrassie | 2019-11-24T06:14:22+00:00
My suggestion would be twofold. 1) clearly structure the document to cover both use cases. I.e. describe both cases and how they relate. 2) incorporate both use cases into one example section. 

As it is in this PR, it's confusing. The document starts (as was it's original purpose), discussing the features for daemon to daemon (p2p) communication over tor/i2p, but then gives a big example of *wallet* to daemon over tor. The daemon in the example is not even using the features described above.

## jonathancross | 2019-11-24T14:07:32+00:00
Yes, makes sense to emphasize that this can (and ideally _should_) be run on hardware you control.

> CakeWallet could connect to a home daemon

Monerujo should also work.

## jonathancross | 2019-11-24T14:16:18+00:00
Yes, I see what you mean.
This sounds like a pretty significant restructuring (which I'm happy to do).
But, considering it is already quite long, would it make sense to separate examples into another "Cookbook" or "Examples" document?  I could add mobile examples, GUI with `torsocks` and examples which are more specific to running an open node as an eepsite / hidden service, etc.

**Update:** Added GUI + `torsocks` example to this PR for reference.

## jonathancross | 2019-11-24T14:17:27+00:00
Done.

## jonathancross | 2019-11-24T14:36:22+00:00
I adjusted a bit and mentioned Monerujo (which should work fine today).  I have no experience with CakeWallet, so left that out for now.  Ideally, we should test both and add specific examples (with screen shots even).

## jtgrassie | 2019-11-24T18:11:57+00:00
My points still stand with your latest edits here. This document has become Frankenstein'ed.

Also worth noting, the example you are trying to mix in with this document is kind of already covered in https://github.com/monero-project/monero#using-tor. Why not just update/elaborate that instead? 

## jtgrassie | 2019-11-24T18:14:06+00:00
Another minor comment... "from a linux or mac laptop" The instruction doesn't exclude Win or BSD so why call out mac/linux?

## jonathancross | 2019-11-25T15:31:49+00:00
Makes sense.

# Action History
- Created by: jonathancross | 2019-11-24T00:47:22+00:00
- Closed at: 2019-11-25T15:33:15+00:00
