---
title: Adding ZMQ/Pub support for txpool_add and chain_main events
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6418
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-04-02T14:35:07+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-01-07T21:18:29+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-08-05T14:55:08+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-08-05T14:55:08+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Supports txpool and mainchain events. Will be updated after PR 6357 is merged. Markdown file has description on how clients should use it, and code has decent comments on implementation quirks.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2020-04-04T14:45:30+00:00
Is this "this is UDP, your problem" or something the daemon could try to fix itself ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-04-04T14:47:00+00:00
That sounds backwards. The RPC server uses cryptonote already. Why is this needed ? AFAIK the dep should only be due to core using some RPC defined structure definitions, which should not require a link dep (which will likely fail on Mac).

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-04-04T14:52:07+00:00
You seem to have added a tab again, tabs always screw up indent soon or later (sooner here).

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-04-04T14:53:05+00:00
So that's what requires rpc I guess. Any chance it can be made into some callback to avoid the circular dep ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-04-04T14:59:35+00:00
That's a lot of pointless renaming.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-04-04T15:02:36+00:00
While these changes seem OK in practice, tx.hash is not really meant to be public. It's a cache that's only valid is hash_valid is set. Encouraging this use instead of get_transaction_hash will likely bite us in the rear later. So this adds a couple dozen mostly pointless lines and makes the code more brittle IMHO, even though correct.

## vtnerd | 2020-04-13T20:36:52+00:00
This is the behavior of ZMQ pub/sub. There isn't a good method to fix or change it. If a downstream clients fails to read any pub messages, the server is then forced to block/wait or queue an infinite amount of messages. The number of messages should be fairly low for our purposes, so its not expected to happen frequently if at all.

## vtnerd | 2020-04-13T21:09:54+00:00
I can create a new library for `zmq_pub.cpp` with the core and blockchain dependent on that instead. A callback isn't going to work as desired, because the code still needs to be invoked. Those other libs need to know where to jump either way.

## vtnerd | 2020-04-13T23:58:46+00:00
I don't think its pointless, `res` is not descriptive for what the field represents. The change is pretty simple to revert though.

## vtnerd | 2020-04-14T00:05:47+00:00
Then why is the field public? `get_transaction_hash` should be a public member function that checks the private internal variable and then forwards to the global function. Otherwise, this is clearly indicating accessibility to all. 

This would seem to only "bite us" if one of these functions modifies the hash after its already been calculated once. Seems like an unlikely future change, but yeah sure I'll just duplicate it in memory like before.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-03T06:25:22+00:00
The JSON schema only allows one block at a time. When the daemon is synchronizing, this sends lots of individual ZMQ messages. Actually changing this will require a bit more work in the "core" code, but the schema doesn't allow any flexibility right now.

I'm thinking about making the schema:
```json
{"first_height": ..., "last_id": ..., "blocks: [ ... ]}
```
I initially decided against this for micro-optimization purposes on the receiver side - they need the equivalent of a `std::vector` which is less efficient for the more common single block case. However, this can be mitigated in several different ways (`boost::container::small_vector`, etc).

The other advantage is that the full block send doesn't contain the hash directly right now (it must be computed by duplicating what the daemon does), and getting the block height for full block requires poking into the `miner_tx`. So these fields are redundant for the full block, but still kind of helpful due to the complexity of the schema.

Any NACKs?

## vtnerd | 2020-05-03T06:30:25+00:00
It just occurred to me that the full txes don't have the hash included either. They must be computed remotely by duplicating the daemon code. Worth sending the hash here too?

## xiphon | 2020-05-04T11:39:57+00:00
If it is empty, why do we need it here?

## xiphon | 2020-05-04T12:04:22+00:00
Consider to swap the loops

## xiphon | 2020-05-04T12:37:50+00:00
Don't like this. IMO we should avoid introducing this dependency.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-04T19:51:31+00:00
Any more information? I wrote it this way because the same block should remain in the CPU data cache for each call. However, this should thrash the CPU instruction cache. Are you saying you think the opposite is preferred? Some other reason?

## xiphon | 2020-05-04T21:24:37+00:00
In case of empty `m_block_notifiers`, we could skip iteration over `alt_chain`.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-05-05T17:35:37+00:00
Agreed. If it's a pain to avoid I could live with it though.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-11T22:01:03+00:00
This is the style in this file. The empty set is declared like this and passed to the `monero_add_library` function. I can revert to `""` if desired, I only did it this way to follow the existing style.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-11T22:03:29+00:00
Done.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-11T22:05:09+00:00
Using `boost::function` (not `std::function`, see comments). The penalty is an indirect function call instead of a direct function call when `zmq_pub` is enabled. Its also less obvious now  that the call is doing a `shared_ptr` lock, but the code for blockchain notification has the same issue.

## vtnerd | 2020-05-12T04:56:47+00:00
I switched to arrays for `chain_main` events (future extensibility), but did not change the full block output. Minimal block events have differed slightly with array change.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-07-11T22:30:37+00:00
Why ? Looks like you set valid to false for txes we alreay have in the txpool or the chain, and therefore are valid.

## vtnerd | 2020-07-13T17:52:28+00:00
This is probably the result of several edits, and is now confusing. I will remove this line and 1074, then add an `else { results[i].valid = false }` section below the `if` block that starts on line 1071. The intent was to make sure that txes _not_ added to the pool are marked as `!invalid` so that they are not reported over ZMQ (the ZMQ notify code skips those txes).

## vtnerd | 2020-07-23T19:01:38+00:00
Reverted.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2020-04-02T14:35:07+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-08-05T14:55:08+00:00
