---
title: Add "address mnew" command for monero-wallet-cli
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6931
author: codesoap
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-10-23T21:10:27+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-12-26T21:35:35+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-12-26T21:35:35+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-12-26T21:35:35+00:00'
---

# Original Description
When I create a cold wallet, I want to generate a bunch of subaddresses in advance and store them within easy reach. This way I always have "fresh" subaddresses at hand, even when I don't have quick access to my secret keys.

It annoyed me, that I could only generate one subaddress at a time with `monero-wallet-cli`, so I thought a `address mnew <n>` command, which generates n addresses at once, would be useful. I chose the `mnew` name in the style of FTP's `put`/`mput` commands. I'm still very new to Monero, so please let me know if I reinvented a wheel here.

A downside to my implementation is, that the addresses cannot be labeled. I'm not sure if this is a big deal; I don't care about the labels, since I don't store the wallet anyway - I only store my mnemonic.

# Discussion History
## selsta | 2020-12-26T17:45:05+00:00
Do you know if this is correct? Isn’t that showing a subaddress on hardware wallet? Guess that would not work for 1000 subaddresses.

## codesoap | 2020-12-26T17:58:50+00:00
I'm not sure if I understood the question fully. This is the same [code used for the `address new` command](https://github.com/codesoap/monero/blob/4c0ea2df00ccb29f8368c892bda0094dcf1a1547/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L9510), so I would guess, that it has no more problems, than typing in `address new` a 1000 times. 

## codesoap | 2020-12-26T18:01:06+00:00
Oh and in case there is a misunderstanding: 1000 is just the **limit** for how many addresses can be generated in a single `address mnew` call. I would not expect people to generate this many subaddresses often.

## selsta | 2020-12-26T18:01:19+00:00
If you generate an address they get displayed on the hardware wallet. This makes sense for one address, but quickly looping through up to 1000 addresses does not make sense. I would remove that line.

## codesoap | 2020-12-26T18:07:11+00:00
I was not aware of this interaction of `monero-wallet-cli` and hardware wallets. Thanks for educating me! I will test it and remove the line.

## codesoap | 2020-12-26T18:34:17+00:00
The `address mnew` command still works as expected when I remove the line. I have force pushed the change.

## selsta | 2020-12-26T18:34:48+00:00
ok thanks for testing

# Action History
- Created by: codesoap | 2020-10-23T21:10:27+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-12-26T21:35:35+00:00
