---
title: Change to Tx diffusion (Dandelion++ fluff) instead of flooding
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6146
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-11-16T04:30:20+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-01-07T21:18:04+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-01-25T04:06:55+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-01-25T04:06:55+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This changes the Tx notification algorithm from a basic "flooding" to Dandelion++ Fluff (aka diffusion). This is close the design that Bitcoin Core is using for diffusion (but does not have "full" Dandelion++). This makes it more difficult to learn connection graphs, because each tx is propagated slightly differently due to randomized delays. It also gives an opportunity to send your txes with other txes being spread at the same time.

I decided to PR this immediately because of [this comment](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5965/files/cfe35e7903c179bcc93be15ed1427b1d7b89588b#diff-d65754889afbda19c7e62e5f3212bd5cR1298) by @moneromooo-monero in the split mempool PR. The issue was that "private" txes being re-relayed would be sent at the same time as "public" txs being re-relayed. Using diffusion helps because the public txes are always sent out using diffusion (randomized timer), and the private txes are sent using "white noise" (randomized timer) or sent using diffusion (randomized timer). Basically all tx sending is funneled to code that flushes on randomized timers.

The 5 second "average" for the poisson distribution comes from Bitcoin Core. We might want to increase this value because Monero has less txes in a given time interval. This will increase the latency to tx spreading however.

EDIT: Neither the Dandelion nor Dandelion++ paper appears to suggest an average flush time.

# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2019-11-16T04:30:20+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-01-25T04:06:55+00:00
