---
title: Use byte_slice for sending zmq messages - removes data copy within zmq
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6350
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-02-23T15:56:15+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-01-04T04:52:03+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-05-01T20:14:26+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-05-01T20:14:26+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Sending JSON response on the ZMQ RPC server has two allocations + copies - one into a std::string and a second internally within ZMQ. This removes that second copy (but ZMQ still allocates internally!), which is an obvious performance gain.

Its possible to remove the allocation+copy into `bye_slice` by getting `rapidjson` to write directly into a `byte_slice` compatible buffer. I am "saving" that for a future commit because its a bit more code.

I ran with this with clang ASAN mode, no memory leaks detected in the unit tests or in the ZMQ JSON-RPC server usage. 

# Discussion History
## xiphon | 2020-04-07T21:39:37+00:00
```suggestion
    epee::byte_slice handle(const std::string& request) final;
```

## xiphon | 2020-04-07T21:46:23+00:00
Could be moved inside `MDEBUG(...)`, so it doesn't get evaluated of debug logs are disabled.

## vtnerd | 2020-04-17T20:26:03+00:00
That's a huge line to save a pointer copy and length copy. Since all of those definitions are visible in the header, the compiler could elide/delay through analysis already. I'll see how I clean this up though.

## vtnerd | 2020-04-17T22:55:09+00:00
So I just looked at this. I don't understand, do you think the `override` keyword should be dropped?

## vtnerd | 2020-04-17T23:00:02+00:00
I made this change with a multi-line debug statement. Maybe more eye-pleasing too.

## xiphon | 2020-04-17T23:01:55+00:00
Either way is fine to me

## vtnerd | 2020-04-17T23:06:42+00:00
Ok, now I remember why I did it this way. The comment for the `boost::string_ref` constructor breaks the `MDEBUG` macro which interprets it as an additional macro argument. It should be possible to "fix" the macro, but this temporary object is fairly light-weight to construct.

And it just occurred to me that the compiler is likely to always copy the pointer and length because of the insane rules to observable effects (in the function call to check current log level).

I'll leave as-is for now, its not a huge penalty, but it does requiring changing the macro.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2020-02-23T15:56:15+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-05-01T20:14:26+00:00
