---
title: 'Various improvements to the ZMQ JSON-RPC handling:'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6273
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2019-12-31T02:34:49+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-01-04T04:52:37+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-03-12T08:14:08+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-03-12T08:14:08+00:00'
---

# Original Description
  - Finding handling function in ZMQ JSON-RPC now uses binary search
  - Temporary `std::vector`s in JSON output now use `epee::span` to
    prevent allocations.
  - Binary -> hex in JSON output no longer allocates temporary buffer
  - C++ structs -> JSON skips intermediate DOM creation, and instead
    write directly to an output stream.

I ran a "hell test" for performance numbers - `GetBlocksFast` with unpruned txes during the biggest blocks (borromean!). The improvement is likely lower for smaller JSON messages, but is still representive of a decent speed improvement:
Fanless i7-7Y75 laptop -> ~33.7%, ryzen 3900x desktop -> ~34.1%

Unfortunately, there is lots of churn due to the function argument changes. And the JSON output can still use improvement (there will hopefully be more changes to the ZMQ JSON stuff).

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-03T15:14:21+00:00
Does this still find the one in our tree ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-03T15:15:03+00:00
Do what to json ? Serialize I guess, but that's fairly obscure.

## vtnerd | 2020-01-05T15:36:38+00:00
Yes. I used the brackets because its not in our codebase or maintained by us, but perhaps that styling was too aggressive ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-01-05T20:19:26+00:00
I don't care as long as it doesn't break that case.

## omartijn | 2020-02-25T07:54:21+00:00
Is it necessary to initialize the array here? I'd argue we shouldn't because it must be initialized by `buffer_unchecked` below. You could argue that it solves undefined behaviour in case `buffer_unchecked` somehow does not initialize the whole array, but even in that case zero-initialization would make static analysis impossible.

## omartijn | 2020-02-25T08:16:03+00:00
Three things here:

- We check whether we have the member we are looking for, but we do not check that it is the right type. If the member exists but is, say, an integer or an array, you could still get a RapidJSON assertion (terminating the program).
- `GetString` returns a char*, requiring a `strlen` for the size to be correctly determined. We should use `GetStringLength` here instead (RapidJSON already knows the size).
- We could avoid copying (and possible allocation, depending on SSO and method name length) by using a `boost::string_view` instead of an `std::string`

## omartijn | 2020-02-25T08:23:59+00:00
Since it seems that in each and every instance the struct member and the field in the json have the same name, would it make sense to have a macro for this specific case? It'd be nice if we don't have to keep repeating field names everywhere.

## omartijn | 2020-02-25T08:36:05+00:00
I'm a bit worried about this method. It does return a copy, as promised, but it's still backed by the `doc` member we have. This means that if the `FullMessage` is destructed after obtaining the copy, we'd end up reading deallocated memory, resulting in undefined behaviour.

Since this method comes with some gotchas, I'd say we should either remove the method (it's not used anywhere), or add a clear warning to the method to avoid running into problems later on.

## omartijn | 2020-02-25T08:50:10+00:00
Since we are not moving the `std::string{"2.0"}` here (toJsonValue does not seem to have an overload taking an rvalue for `std::string`), would it make sense to have a `static const std::string` somewhere containing the RPC version number? It would make it easier to change it, should we ever need to in the future.

## omartijn | 2020-02-25T08:52:42+00:00
Any specific reason for this added scope? Looking at it I started to assume that the `rapidjson::Writer` destructor performs relevant tasks (e.g. writing to the buffer), but I couldn't quickly find anything related to that.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-25T14:19:35+00:00
In case the `writer<..>` needs to flush anything on destruction. It should be unnecessary in this situation.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-25T14:28:45+00:00
The constructor for the object throws if the root type isn't object. I wanted to do away with the temporary `std::string` construction, but was kind of pushing this for some future PR. I can reorganize this a bit now ... ?

## vtnerd | 2020-02-25T14:30:22+00:00
It "ok" for now, but this method probably needs to be punted as you suggest. I haven't thought about how to re-arrange this yet. Do this now too or ... ? The relevant code has been in several releases, fwiw.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-25T14:32:40+00:00
Yes, this was/is rather annoying. I have a macro that allows header/cpp split and brings it closer to epee style already, but I haven't changed these. This change is definitely worth a separate PR because it will incur lots of changes.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-25T14:33:45+00:00
Read fail. I responded too quickly before reading the unused portion. I will chop this function then.

## omartijn | 2020-02-25T14:54:43+00:00
I think I may not have explained myself clearly enough about checking the type. `doc` is obviously an object, that isn't the issue. The issue is that we check whether the object has the required key, but not whether the value for that key is of the right type.

Assuming something like the following JSON:

```
{
    "method": 100
}
```

The code would check whether the JSON value is an object (it is) and then whether it has the key `method` (it does). It then tries to convert the value for key `method` to a string, which fails because it's a number instead.

I'm fine with postponing the elimination of the temporary `std::string`, since the PR is already somewhat largish.

## ndorf | 2020-02-26T12:37:24+00:00
Why is the std::string needed here at all? `INSERT_INTO_JSON_OBJECT(dest, jsonrpc, "2.0")` would work, as would a `static const char[]`.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-26T23:25:39+00:00
I missed this while updating the code. This needs to be a separate PR so it can be backported easier.

## vtnerd | 2020-02-28T23:32:34+00:00
See PR #6361 .

## vtnerd | 2020-03-04T04:01:05+00:00
I don't remember why I specified the `std::string` explicitly. I think it was to remind myself to update the overload to a `boost::string_ref`. I will just do this now.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-04T04:02:40+00:00
I thought about this a bit, and I will the drop the initialization here. This can never fail, so it will always be initialized when its returned. 

## ndorf | 2020-03-04T21:01:05+00:00
I just realized that `string_ref` doesn't have an array-ref constructor overload (unlike, say, `rapidjson::StringRef`), only `const char *`. So, `strlen()` will be invoked on the argument every time one is constructed.

Obviously, that's very minor, but also trivial to avoid, using a single `static const boost::string_ref VERSION = "2.0"`.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-05T00:26:46+00:00
This is a situation where compiler might do the conversion automagically. The bigger issue is that string literals get trapped by `toJsonValue` for hex conversion. Which is why I did this - punt this to a future edit.

## omartijn | 2020-03-05T08:03:22+00:00
@ndorf According to [boost.String_ref documentation](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_72_0/libs/utility/doc/html/string_ref.html#string_ref.reference) the relevant constructor is declared as follows:

`BOOST_CONSTEXPR basic_string_ref(const charT* str);`

In our case, since we are using `c++11` and have NOT defined `BOOST_NO_CXX11_CONSTEXPR` the constructor will be constexpr qualified, so I don't think we'll have to worry about runtime calls to strlen.

## vtnerd | 2020-03-07T06:16:49+00:00
The documentation for `boost::string_ref` is incorrect. Only the overload with the length is `constexpr`. I tested `boost::string_view` (conforming to the new standard and not available in Boost 1.58) which has the relevant constructor marked as `constexpr`.  It is only usable as `constexpr` in C++17 or with a change in the default `traits` template argument. 

Disassembling revealed that Gcc and Clang will do runtime length computations in the usual call syntax. The programmer has to manually force `constexpr` behavior to get the compilers to compute the length at compile-time. A shame.

I somehow forgot that I already switched the `toJsonValue` overload to `boost::string_ref`, so I updated this portion of code with `boost::string_ref{"2.0", 3}` which is a bit more verbose but still easy.

## ndorf | 2020-03-18T18:37:30+00:00
Sorry to bump this, but I've been away for a bit. A modest proposal:
```
template <size_t Len>
auto static_string_ref(const char (&str)[Len])
{
    return boost::string_ref(str, Len - 1);
}
```

edit: Forgot the -1

## vtnerd | 2020-03-18T22:17:10+00:00
You mean like [the instance I slipped into the codebase already](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d1cf16364fb1901c2940ce66024688ea3fe3fc48/contrib/epee/src/http_auth.cpp#L87)? I can find a header somewhere for it.

## ndorf | 2020-03-19T15:32:58+00:00
Yup, seems better to use that than hardcoding the length everywhere, no?

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2019-12-31T02:34:49+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-03-12T08:14:08+00:00
