---
title: 'connection: fix implementation'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7760
author: perfect-daemon
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-06-22T18:44:10+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-07-02T18:45:13+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2023-07-02T18:45:13+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T02:05:33+00:00
All of these `cancel_` booleans are unnecessary; the standard technique is checking `ec == boost::asio::error::operation_aborted` (nearly every example uses this technique). This method is preferable because it catches all cancellations, even ones added in the future (which are currently only caught if the flag is set to true). 

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T02:12:35+00:00
This `wait_for` is going to need some justification, in the comments, and with some performance testing. Or just any explanation at all. Because this is slowing down all outgoing writes by an arbitrary amount of time.

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T02:13:43+00:00
This is still a DoS case - the thread is still blocked.This should be changed to a drop (this is one of the reasons why I am pushing for a piecemeal approach ...).

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T02:18:49+00:00
`switch`

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T02:19:01+00:00
`switch`

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T02:19:18+00:00
`switch`

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T02:33:33+00:00
`wait_read` is only necessary because the callbacks invoke `start_read` ... again. This is unnecessary if the callback were a local struct that contains only the inner looping read calls. I think this is preferable because it separates the start and looping code, whereas this is mixing the two. It also allows for less state machines.

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T02:42:14+00:00
Wait this was inside an `if` statement? Ugh, sorry, can we fix the style of this at least?

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T02:45:52+00:00
Ok I see why this was duplicated, but there has to be a simpler more concise technique. And seriously `{}` this!

## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-23T02:54:17+00:00
Both connection and sender should be asynchronous to remove this problem.
It's partially solved now, as much as possible without changing the rest of the code.

## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-23T02:55:26+00:00
This queue will be removed from connection later, once everything else is asynchronous.

## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-23T03:24:41+00:00
It will be needed later when everything is asynchronous since reader may not consume every received chunk immediately and it's possible that there is no active callbacks at all.

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T04:44:06+00:00
You can't remove a queue, or at least you shouldn't. Because `post`ing to a strand is still a queue.

AFAIK there are 3 choices: (1) close connection (drop data), (2) block a thread to wait, or (3) unbounded queue. I think this needs to transition to (1) if an entire re-write is being done.

## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-23T04:45:14+00:00
I can, will and it's needed. But it isn't easy.

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T04:46:10+00:00
The flag is only needed because `start_read` is both starting and continuing the reads. It is possible to separate the two, removing the need for the flag. After every async read (and subsequent processing), the continue function is called.

## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-23T04:46:30+00:00
`post` and any other forward will be replaced with asynchronous generator

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T05:03:17+00:00
Asynchronous generator? You mean asynchronously generate bytes piecemeal? That's just a more complicated outgoing buffer. This has to be a drop or block.

## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-23T14:04:32+00:00
What are the sources of data for outgoing queue ?
1. Synchronous forward of notifications with txs/blocks which can be made asynchronous with fetching from local blockchain storage.
2. Requests/responses required by explicit synchronization which can be generated asynchronously as soon as outgoing/incoming fixed size buffer is free.

In general, daemon sends and receives only verified data that is stored/loaded to/from blockchain db.
This is the only available unbounded buffer to store data.


## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-23T14:07:13+00:00
I didn't try to optimize number of states / transitions.
It can be done later unless it's needed for significant performance increase or it's related to correctness of the code.

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T16:08:27+00:00
This is just my personal opinion obviously, but -

if you want to do a re-write of the entire connection code, then it should be "optimized" with the fewest number of states / transitions possible. Otherwise, what is the purpose of the re-write? I'm being critical because if this were done piecemeal, the code could've looked similar in the end to this PR, but the unnecessary code/states could be removed along the way easier during review. Removing the unnecessary bits makes it easier to maintain and debug.

As an example, the `cancel_` state flags have to be removed, unless there is some justification why the standard way of checking for cancellation is inappropriate (none was provided above in the other comment thread). And this `wait_read`  (that started this thread) doesn't appear to have any justification (yet), given how ASIO callbacks are typically done.

## vtnerd | 2021-06-23T16:16:09+00:00
I already know exactly what you are proposing, and I am pointing out that some p2p messages require a response, and a queue of asynchronous events is still a queue. The commentary by the ZeroMQ developers on Pub/Sub seems appropriate here - if the read side is behind eventually you have to drop data and/or the connection.

All of these changes don't really change the behavior of the existing problem. Multiple threads can get stuck busy waiting for a queue to clear. The previous method had the threads waiting indefinitely at a lock, whereas here they wait indefinitely in conditional variables.

## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-24T00:55:01+00:00
> This is still a DoS case - the thread is still blocked.This should be changed to a drop (this is one of the reasons why I am pushing for a piecemeal approach ...).

I didn't understand that you were talking about any action after failed conditional sleep.
I've added missing `terminate(); return false`.

## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-24T12:19:22+00:00
Updated

## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-24T12:29:42+00:00
> Otherwise, what is the purpose of the re-write?
>
These explicit flags are needed to not depend on internal behaviour of boost asio which doesn't allow to cancel already dispatched callback.

## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-24T12:35:19+00:00
> ... Removing the unnecessary bits makes it easier to maintain and debug.
>
It depends.

## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-24T12:37:12+00:00
>if you want to do a re-write of the entire connection code, then it should be "optimized" with the fewest number of states / transitions possible. Otherwise, what is the purpose of the re-write? 
>
The main goal is to fix known problems and prepare code for design changes, which can't be done in case of greedy early optimizations of every component.

## vtnerd | 2021-06-29T21:11:43+00:00
> These explicit flags are needed to not depend on internal behaviour of boost asio which doesn't allow to cancel already dispatched callback.

I've thought about this case before, and typically its not worth stressing about. In the read/write callbacks either reset the timer immediately or call `cancel` immediately. The timer will be in the strand queue with the appropriate `error_code`.

In the off chance that it queued the timer just after the other event but before the cancel could occur  ... the timer was so close to executing its not worth the extra state variable and logic. Let ASIO handle all of the state tracking because its better "defensive coding" - the `error_code` cancel check handles every future update to how the timer is used.

> It depends.

Just chop out these unnecessary states. There's a giant `if` ladder than get be chopped down for instance.

> The main goal is to fix known problems and prepare code for design changes, which can't be done in case of greedy early optimizations of every component.

I dislike your usage of the word optimization in this context because it makes it sound like I am asking for a performance comparison. This is about making the code more concise+legible - particularly the `start_read` function.

## perfect-daemon | 2021-06-30T13:49:13+00:00
"concise - short and clear, expressing what needs to be said without unnecessary words"
"optimization - the process of making something as good or effective as possible"
Non-programming language is ambiguous enough to allow misinterpretation of anything so If current code is correct then any further changes can be treated as optimization.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-22T18:08:14+00:00
This "alias everything" style breaks from existing coding conventions, and it would preferable to revert to something closer to the existing style.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-22T18:10:08+00:00
Repeating this again since it got lost in the back-and-forth, but the `cancel_` booleans are not necessary. Requesting their removal is not "an optimization request" - if you are going to re-write the entirety of the connection code then don't leave new things for others to remove and deal with.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-22T18:13:35+00:00
There's no reason to include these SSL changes with the connection re-write. Include these changes in a new PR with an explanation as to why its being changed.

And if the issue being fixed is the racy `ec = ...`, this can be fixed with less changes. All that was needed is an `std::atomic_flag` to signal the change (a safe "happens before/after synchronization), these other changes are overkill.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-22T18:31:24+00:00
You're trying to avoid making changes, which is frustrating because this PR contains more code than necessary, leaving more work for reviewers. I will try again in a new review to point out some things.

## j-berman | 2022-05-26T03:56:55+00:00
I notice that test 1 doesn't get in here; instead deleting a connection via the daemon invokes `socket_.next_layer().shutdown` inside `on_terminating`. Would this possibly leave the session vulnerable to a [truncation attack](https://stackoverflow.com/a/25703699)?

I'm still building up my knowledge on the ssl protocol in general, but figure you'd have the experience to know definitively if this was an oversight and if this would be the case. Why call shutdown on the next layer in `on_terminating` and not on the higher level socket like you do here? What makes that case different from this one? Hard to find clear answers on this on the internet (and in the code)

## j-berman | 2022-05-29T19:41:25+00:00
The PR author's reasoning to not invoke `socket_.async_shutdown` when terminating a connection seems to be two-fold:

1) [the risk of a truncation attack is not practically significant](https://libera.monerologs.net/monero-research-lab/20220527#c99767-c99768)
2) [using `async_shutdown` on connection close would require a timeout in the event of an unresponsive client, which arguably opens a wider & more significant surface for abuse than a truncation attack](https://libera.monerologs.net/monero-research-lab/20220529#c100874-c100875)

Seems reasonable to me.

## jeffro256 | 2022-05-30T03:15:37+00:00
This infinite loop is really not great. Give it a max timeout (using e.g. `usleep`) and then fail the test if it takes too long.

## jeffro256 | 2022-05-30T03:16:12+00:00
Same here

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T08:28:38+00:00
+1 on this. Things like `std::string` or `std::mutex` shouldn't be renamed at all to avoid confusion. Long `epee` and `boost` names can probably be renamed.

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T08:32:33+00:00
All these class members should have `m_` prefix in their name - take `src/cryptonote_basic/connection_context.h` as an example of naming convention. This is to avoid confusion with local variables in the class methods.

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T08:33:12+00:00
Same, `m_` prefix here and in other classes (structs are fine).

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T08:37:37+00:00
hosts_mutex and hosts should be moved to `connection` class as static members to avoid generating initialization code inside the function. Also, this function doesn't remove an entry from `hosts` when `val` is 0, so `hosts` can grow indefinitely and consume all memory if there is an attacker exploiting this.

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T08:42:23+00:00
Also, if `delta` is 0 (which is the common use of this function), it should have code like this
```
if (!delta) {
    auto it = hosts.find(host);
    return (it != hosts.end()) ? it->second : 0;
}
```
to avoid using `operator[]` which modifies the map and is slower.

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T08:51:37+00:00
This sequence is not thread-safe. Should it be protected by `state.lock`? Maybe making `wait_expire` atomic and
```
    if (state.timers.general.wait_expire.exchange(true))
        return;
```
will be enough?

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T08:53:34+00:00
This is very rarely used in C++ and it's definitely not used in other parts of the Monero codebase. Change it to `if (!state.timers.general.wait_expire)` please

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T08:54:09+00:00
Same here, use normal C++ operator syntax `!` `&&`

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T08:56:01+00:00
This is separated from the `if (state.socket.wait_handshake)` check and again not thread safe. It should be done as an atomic operation and in one place, either here or in the beginning of the function.

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T08:57:28+00:00
Here you even mix `&&` with `not`. Please use normal C++ syntax.

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T08:58:04+00:00
Again the same non-thread safe pattern.

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T09:02:17+00:00
This is just plain stupid nonsense. RNG must be initialized once and then used, not seeded from std::random_device every time (~2500 bytes!!!). At this stage, you could've just used std::random_device directly. This implementation will deplete system's entropy very quickly.

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T09:07:34+00:00
Yes, seeding the full state (2500 bytes) from std::random_device is totally ok and even good if you do it once. But this code must be rewritten.

## mj-xmr | 2022-05-30T10:32:08+00:00
> This implementation will deplete system's entropy very quickly.

That's indeed bad for a crypto project, like Monero.

## SChernykh | 2022-05-30T17:24:40+00:00
It turns out this code has been there for a long time. Still, since this PR is almost a full rewrite, it's better to fix it like in #8365

## mj-xmr | 2022-05-31T04:18:21+00:00
I agree. Large rewrites aren't tolerated here from anybody, and for valid reasons.

Plus we can't use double standards.

## jeffro256 | 2022-05-31T19:11:19+00:00
Another (potentially) infinite loop in test suite

## jeffro256 | 2022-05-31T19:24:28+00:00
Again with the type aliasing. I think at a certain point, it starts to really hinder readability. Also what other type would we use for `srand_t`? It's such a specialized type it wouldn't make sense to use anything else and anything else is not going to have the same interface anyways. 

## jeffro256 | 2022-05-31T21:55:45+00:00
`switch` statement would be better here 

## jeffro256 | 2022-05-31T21:56:01+00:00
`switch` statement would be better here

## jeffro256 | 2022-05-31T21:56:01+00:00
`switch` statement would be better here

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-01T17:40:33+00:00
`io_service::strand::wrap` is no longer available in newer versions of Boost (>= 1.66)

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-01T18:55:49+00:00
This is good that this is renamed to `configure`

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-01T19:06:12+00:00
Using a lock in asynchronous code is awkward. Asynchronous code touching the same object should be running from the same strand and shouldn't be executing concurrently, eliminating the need for locks.  

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-01T19:51:52+00:00
Using a `stop_waiting` predicate inside a `while` loop is redundant 

## selsta | 2022-06-02T19:17:05+00:00
I have run this code with boost versions >= 1.66, any idea?

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-02T19:27:48+00:00
Here is the relevant line in `strand.hpp` version 1.58 which provides the method `wrap`: https://github.com/boostorg/asio/blob/36f5fda32fd518714c00ae6fe23a352ed64a7f66/include/boost/asio/strand.hpp#L223

There is no such method in the commit tagged for Boost 1.66: https://github.com/boostorg/asio/blob/310f245a35a20af59a4cd0030626a4de23c7309c/include/boost/asio/strand.hpp

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-02T19:28:48+00:00
I don't know @selsta, you might have been running a compatibility library? Or the versioning system is off?

## selsta | 2022-06-02T19:34:22+00:00
Could it be that you looked in the wrong file?

https://github.com/boostorg/asio/blob/develop/include/boost/asio/io_context_strand.hpp has wrap and `io_service_strand.hpp` just includes `io_context_strand.hpp`.

I just know that it compiles fine with the latest boost version without any compatibility library or whatever so there's something else going on.

## selsta | 2022-06-02T19:44:45+00:00
Did you check the `strand_deadlock` test case? I'm quite sure some of these design decisions were intentional to solve this issue, together with setting `-DBOOST_ASIO_ENABLE_SEQUENTIAL_STRAND_ALLOCATION`

But I also don't want to give false info so maybe ignore if this doesn't make sense.

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-02T20:03:03+00:00
Figured it out: [it's deprecated](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_66_0/doc/html/boost_asio/reference/io_context__strand/wrap.html) in favor of `bind_executor`

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-02T20:09:17+00:00
Yes I'm sure the author put the locks in there for a reason, due to the current design of `handshake`, but since this is a complete rewrite,  it doesn't make sense to have code running asynchronously from a single executor AND have status booleans AND have it be manually, externally locked. Even if it functions correctly, this will likely gum up the `io_context` of `socket` waiting for locks and it makes it a ton harder to track what's going on.

## selsta | 2022-06-02T22:42:06+00:00
We still support 1.59 and `bind_executor` isn't supported in that version so we would have to add `#if`.

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-04T00:16:56+00:00
potentially infinite `while` loop

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-04T00:18:04+00:00
potentially infinite `while` loop

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-04T00:24:26+00:00
Even if it is just a single line, please document these private methods

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-04T02:16:20+00:00
This alias can be confusing because of the use of the term "handler" with regards to `asio`

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-04T02:37:54+00:00
Not that I'm necessarily opposed to this change, but what it the rational for switching to round-robin allocation of strands? Was there any evidence that deadlocks with the current code are related to non-round-robin allocation of strands?

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-04T03:46:06+00:00
`socket_t` now refers to 2 types: this one and `boost::asio::ip::tcp::socket`, and is ambiguous

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-04T03:46:51+00:00
`timer_t` now refers to 2 types: this one and `boost::asio::steady_timer`, and is ambiguous


## jeffro256 | 2022-06-04T03:51:06+00:00
Aliasing nested user-defined types is not a design choice I think is easy on future maintainers/readers. If you want your new type to be scoped to another do that. If you want it be be top-level, do that. But don't nest it then alias it back up to the top IMO

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-04T04:16:31+00:00
like other have suggested, use `!` instead of `not`

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-05T02:09:56+00:00
This test expects this condition to be met, yet should instead error if this condition isn't, as this condition not being met is a failure of the code being run. I'd also appreciate a sleep statement being added to reduce CPU utilization while this condition is checked for. Same for the other infinite loop noted below this (and likely any others).

## j-berman | 2022-06-14T11:50:46+00:00
The core of the PR's solution to the strand deadlock test case (test 3) is to use 2 strands (`strand` and `strand_`). Might be clearer to see how over in [this code](https://github.com/j-berman/monero/commit/35fb1be9e7653fe6486d21a22082141b391c629e) where I tried to pull out the solution to just test 3.

If boost happens to randomly allocate the same strand implementation for both strands (boost randomly allocates from a pool of 193 by default), then a deadlock can resurface, since the writes won't be able to clear from the strand that `handle_recv` is posting to (the writes get stuck in the same strand behind the `handle_recv` = deadlock).

Allocating strands round robin avoids this because it should guarantee that both strands in each connection will have distinct implementations allocated (since connections themselves are also only created 1 at a time).

If you try running his test 3 without this definition, you'll eventually run into a test failure at some point, which should be the collision case described above.


## j-berman | 2022-06-14T11:56:22+00:00
Each boolean ensures that no function is called more times than is necessary (each action in the socket executes 1 at a time as needed). The (seemingly bloated) boolean defense provides explicit synchronization, offering complete control over the execution flow without relying on boost internals, which as evidenced by the seemingly seg fault-prone handshake, can lead to screw-ups. Error codes are still checked where needed AFAICT (for example, [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7760/files#diff-d49d9b097e48c1af6a5675db99f2c69a413888b1f9e8d50e2eece4b2a1bc51e1R359)).

Perhaps the booleans go against the standard way of using boost ASIO, and perhaps this approach could be considered less future proof as is, but I think given the issues this PR is solving as constructed (and the PR author hopes to solve and optimize further by building from this PR), then I'd say it's a clear improvement over the current that is worth shipping as is. He has also provided defense for the decision to include them and the bar is high enough for me to warrant inclusion given the scope of the PR's aims.

## j-berman | 2022-06-14T12:00:21+00:00
AFAICT the lock should be held by the caller of the function here and in the other places

## j-berman | 2022-06-14T12:20:29+00:00
It solves the seg fault in the handshake test case, and it does it in a manner that's really similar to the rest of the PR. I'd argue it's actually significantly more readable/easier to grok than the rest of the PR since it's fairly contained and isolated. It helped me as I got started reviewing the rest of the PR because of this.

I agree still that this can probably be a separate PR with [just this commit](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/commit/df0c7e6100235f3086e81ce7c7fff8bea0caa2f6) or perhaps even fewer changes, but I'm not hugely opposed to it being here as is/don't consider it a PR blocker.
____

> And if the issue being fixed is the racy ec = ..., this can be fixed with less changes. All that was needed is an std::atomic_flag to signal the change (a safe "happens before/after synchronization), these other changes are overkill.

The primary fix here ensures that upon successful completion of the handshake, the `cancel_timer` boolean prevents the deadline timer from executing an erroneous close sequence in the timeout handler, which also demonstrates the implausibility of the test's seg fault.

Perhaps there is a cleaner more standard solution to this with fewer changes as you mention, but it's a pretty clean section of code that seems to do the job as is I would say.

## j-berman | 2022-06-14T12:26:00+00:00
In this case it ensures synchronization between the handshake which executes inside the strand, and the deadline timer which handles a timeout sequence outside the strand in the event of a slow handshake. I'm having trouble seeing how it would be better constructed without a lock

In other cases it ensures synchronization across the 2 separate strands

## j-berman | 2022-06-14T12:28:50+00:00
Agree this seems like a good suggestion. The code seems to already have this issue though, the PR author just moved the code so it showed up in the diff FWIW. I'd say worth a separate PR

## j-berman | 2022-06-14T22:34:52+00:00
> All of these changes don't really change the behavior of the existing problem. Multiple threads can get stuck busy waiting for a queue to clear. The previous method had the threads waiting indefinitely at a lock, whereas here they wait indefinitely in conditional variables.

AFAICT this approach is a marked improvement over the current code:

1. Reads/writes are no longer waiting on `handle_recv` or callbacks to complete (which execute in the newly introduced 2nd `strand_`), therefore they can process quicker and clear from the strand quicker.
2. It uses a conditional wait that can unblock as soon as the queue is less than the max.

Without a demonstrable DoS on this new code as is which is evidently harder to DoS, I think the code is merge-able as is, and worth continuing to improve, which the PR author intends to do building from the structure of this PR's code

Additionally there is a risk in dropping the connection here, which is that it can feasibly harm honest usage of the daemon. It's going to take more work to dig deeper to make this entire section air tight to hit the optimal sweet spot imo. For now, this code is an improvement moving in a better direction.

# Action History
- Created by: perfect-daemon | 2021-06-22T18:44:10+00:00
- Closed at: 2023-07-02T18:45:13+00:00
