---
title: fix serialization being different on mac
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7321
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-01-17T21:08:03+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-04-06T17:20:31+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2021-04-06T17:20:31+00:00'
merged_at: '2021-04-06T17:20:31+00:00'
---

# Original Description
On Mac, size_t is a distinct type from uint64_t, and some
types (in wallet cache as well as cold/hot wallet transfer
data) use pairs/containers with size_t as fields. Mac would
save those as full size, while other platforms would save
them as varints. Might apply to other platforms where the
types are distinct.

There's a nasty hack for backward compatibility, which can
go after a couple forks.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2021-01-17T21:53:22+00:00
There's no need to make this a thread-local. Just make it a variable/"getter" in `json_archive_base` and `binary_archive_base`. Then the non-standard `__thread` type isn't needed.

## vtnerd | 2021-01-17T22:15:22+00:00
An `enable_if` approach is also possible:
```c++
template<typename T>
inline constexpr bool use_container_varint() noexcept
{
  using unsigned_type = typename std::make_unsigned<T>::type;
  return
    std::is_same<uint16_t, unsigned_type>() ||
    std::is_same<uint32_t, unsigned_type>() ||
    std::is_same<uint64_t, unsigned_type>();
}

template<typename Archive, typename T>
typename std::enable_if<use_container_varint<T>(), bool>::type
serialize_container_element(Archive& ar, T& e)
{
  static constexpr const bool previously_varint =
    std::is_same<uint64_t, T>() || std::is_same<uint32_t, T>();

  if (!previously_varint && ar.size_t_compatibility() && ar.is_saving())
    ::do_serialize(ar, e);
  else
    ar.serialize_variant(e);
}
```
This has the same binary compatibility changes as this PR (see other comment).

## vtnerd | 2021-01-17T22:20:42+00:00
The overloads for signed integers and `uint16_t` should break backwards compatibility once saved. This appears intentional; a version number bump at the beginning may be helpful. The format is compact so its not really guaranteed that the fail case triggers (although fairly likely).

## vtnerd | 2021-01-17T22:56:12+00:00
Mac (old) -> all other platforms (including new mac) should now be broken in several cases, correct? I'm referring to the cases where `std::pair<size_t, T>` was updated to `std::pair<uint64_t, T>`. The "new" mac code should be unaware that the value was previously written as a full-sized integer in the compatibility code.

It appears this only occurs when exporting data for cold wallets. So the old files produced by mac can be deleted?

## iamamyth | 2021-01-18T02:17:12+00:00
I think the backwards compatibility code here and elsewhere would benefit greatly from a comment explaining its rationale (maybe the `serialization_size_t_backward_compat` flag can have the comment attached and everything else can reference it).

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-01-18T16:28:17+00:00
Yes, old mac (and possibly any other platform where size_t is distinct from uint64_t). I'm unsure about the switch from size_t to uint64_t. I guess it's a bit more compatible between 32 and 64 bit archs, but otherwise would not matter. Old hot/cold data from mac can be deleted and recreated.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-01-18T16:29:40+00:00
It'd have to be a version number at the top level for hot/cold data files and wallet cache. It doesn't really seem best in this hacky case.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-01-18T16:30:13+00:00
I should have seen that -_-

## vtnerd | 2021-01-28T03:05:02+00:00
I was commenting on Macs being unable to read older files they produced after the `size_t` -> `uint64_t` change. This seems to be limited to data exported for offline usage. I wanted to make sure this was limited to cases that were unlikely to cause many problems for users (like the wallet file itself).

## vtnerd | 2021-02-11T05:23:39+00:00
This can be `static`, but it shouldn't matter much in this case.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2021-01-17T21:08:03+00:00
- Merged at: 2021-04-06T17:20:31+00:00
