---
title: wallet2_base abstraction POC. See uri.cpp UTest.
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7679
author: mj-xmr
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-04-22T09:35:38+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-09-26T06:30:03+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
# Results
The example use case, the unit test `uri.cpp` **compiles 40% faster** after subtracting the I/O overhead, and still 35% faster with the I/O overhead included. It could be reduced even further after cleaning up the headers which still had to be included by the new interface.
Lately I have added other use cases as well.

Global improvements:
| Previous   |      Current      | Change |
|----------|-------------|-------------|
|Compilation (904 times): |  Compilation (907 times): |  0.33% |
| Parsing (frontend):         1434.1 s |     Parsing (frontend):         1398.8 s   |  -2.46% | 
| Codegen & opts (backend):   1523.3 s | Codegen & opts (backend):   1499.1  | -1.59% |
| 110471 ms: wallet2.h (included 19 times, avg 5814 ms): | 77017 ms: wallet2.h (included 14 times, avg 5501 ms) | -30.28%  | 

# Explanation
The `wallet2` class now inherits from the `wallet2_base` interface, which is an abstract class (with at least one pure virtual method). The interface only includes the absolute minimum, while the rest remains forward-declared. In the end state, most of the methods will be pure virtual, while the static ones may remain in the `wallet2_base.cpp`. The important thing to note here, is that the final API isn't affected.
Currently the `wallet2_base` creates the `wallet2` instance with a static method. This will be moved to a factory, or ideally an abstract factory.

# Review considerations
The changes to the original code are intentionally tiny to avoid confusion. OTOH the provided use case (the UT `uri.cpp`) clearly shows where this is going. It shows, that especially for classes as large as `wallet2`, not all clients will have to include all the class' dependencies in order to use the class itself and that the class (or interface) can be very minimalistic as far as its dependencies are concerned.

# Further work
A lot more can be achieved, once the `wallet2`'s internal structs are extracted from the the class itself, and will thus be forward-declareable, but this is planned for another PR. Also, related to this, I have discovered [this redefinition of such a struct](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/wallet/message_store.h#L240). Extracting the structs will make the mentioned repetition obsolete and it will make it possible to safely remove the repetition.

# Alternatives
A [PIMPL](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/pimpl) pattern could be used as well, although this would make the PR much larger than the inheritance approach, so I though that I'd start with inheritance. I find it easier to grasp. Later on, based on the discussion, we can decide in which direction to go by reusing the classes for both the implementation (`wallet2`) and the interface (`wallet2_base`).

time taken: 8h

# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: mj-xmr | 2021-04-22T09:35:38+00:00
