---
title: 'trezor: try empty passphrase first, make trezor usage easier for users'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7793
author: ph4r05
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-07-14T15:16:58+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-10-11T17:54:52+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2021-10-11T17:54:52+00:00'
merged_at: '2021-10-11T17:54:52+00:00'
---

# Original Description
@matejcik in https://github.com/trezor/trezor-firmware/issues/1686#issuecomment-879789424 proposed interesting idea for opening wallets with passphrases:

> An improvement that can be done in Monero GUI immediately and even without the standard/hidden thing:
when you're opening the wallet, query the empty-passphrase address. If it matches, do not even show the passphrase dialog and proceed straight to wallet.

This PR implements the proposal. The flow is:
- If device being used is Trezor, try loading address of the wallet with empty passphrase (no user prompt)
- If address matches wallet address, open without passphrase prompt
- If address does not match, try once again to load address, without passphrase prompt suppression. If there is a passphrase used, user can enter it. 

Benefits:
- Easier access for Trezors with passphrase enabled (soon, all devices will have this by default, as Trezor Suite enables passphrase by default)
- Simplifies wallet opening for empty passphrases

Cons:
- Opening Monero wallet with non-empty passphrase takes a bit longer, as empty passphrase is tried first. This is just one extra call to Trezor, so I think costs are justifiable.

This is just a PoC for discussion. Thanks for ideas.

# Discussion History
## ph4r05 | 2021-07-14T15:19:57+00:00
I wanted to use `dev_cold->seen_passphrase_entry_prompt()` and to try again with passphrase only if device obviously asked for any. But to avoid potential problems we can just ask anyway. The worst case is that address is loaded twice on error.

## selsta | 2021-07-15T15:15:10+00:00
Can you explain "stored passphrase" ?

## ph4r05 | 2021-07-15T15:21:54+00:00
Sure, it was part of the old API, you could set `m_passphrase` to the device object, the passphrase will be then used instead of prompting user. I've added this warning as in general, we don't want users entering their passhprases on computers, but this may have useful use-cases when you know what are you doing. E.g., in tests, automation, etc. It was part of the API so I don't feel like removing it now.

# Action History
- Created by: ph4r05 | 2021-07-14T15:16:58+00:00
- Merged at: 2021-10-11T17:54:52+00:00
