---
title: 'core_tests: cache data for each test separately, then replay'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7469
author: mj-xmr
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-03-07T15:21:49+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-05-11T08:14:27+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Fixes https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/7442

### Results
After the initial generation, the next run of `core_tests` takes about 8 minutes, which compared to the usual run of an hour, is an **8 fold time reduction**, or **52 minutes**.
The whole test cache weights only 6 MB (compressed).

### Description
`core_tests` caches data for each test separately, then replays them. On the next run of the workflow, the generated files are reused with the exception of those data, which deal with time. These have to be regenerated each time.
This has been achieved by chaining the `core_tests` execution, using arguments: `--generate_test_data` and `--play_test_data` in the `core_tests` CMakeLists, as suggested in https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/7442.

The implementation of `core_tests` has been changed in such way, that the previous macros have been extended. The macros `GENERATE` and `PLAY` were not being used previously in a realistic use case. Now they are and they reuse some of the macro code.

### User's perspective
The user can control, whether the data is to be reused (yes, by default), or regenerated each time the `core_tests` is executed, via a new option `TESTS_REUSE_CACHE`. The option is used to steer the `add_test()` command in `core_tests`'s `CMakeFile.txt`. If the option is set to OFF, then the previous `core_tests` argument is used (`--generate_and_play_test_data`), which generates the data in place, without storing them, like it was done before.

# Discussion History
## mj-xmr | 2021-03-07T17:09:53+00:00
This will be reverted, except the `test_cache` section

## mj-xmr | 2021-03-07T17:10:15+00:00
This will be reverted.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-03-13T20:29:58+00:00
I meant to comment on that part.

## mj-xmr | 2021-03-14T07:30:16+00:00
> How does this tell when the cache should be regenerated ?

Unfortunately this is the missing part. Handling this in a smart way would overbloat the PR, which is already large.
What I can offer right now, is setting the CMake variable `TESTS_REUSE_CACHE` to `ON` in the Makefile target, so that it's clearer to the caller, that he can temporarily set it to `OFF`, if his PR is about working with the regeneration of the data. 
Would that be enough for this PR?


## moneromooo-monero | 2021-03-14T10:35:58+00:00
So if you're running as a one off, it won't speed up anything, and if you're running many times, presumably because you're changing the code, you have to reconfigure every time you know the generated data changed, or did not change when it had changed the time before ? When does this actually speed things up ?

## mj-xmr | 2021-03-14T14:10:13+00:00
The cache is being created on the first run. Every next run reuses the cache.
Only when you know, that your changes alter the generated part, you could alter the Makefile to switch the cache to off. 

There is a risk, that somebody generates the original cache, alters the generation with a faulty code, then reuses the original cache and the tests pass, althought they shouldn't.

Therefore I'd propose:
1) leaving the original generation on the fly as the default option (so no caching),
2) allowing the contributor to temporarily change it (cache the data) until the PR is in shape (or just caching in a local build),
3) expecting the contributor to change it back to the original form,
4) confirming, that the tests pass with the original in-place generation and only then approve.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-03-15T16:38:28+00:00
It seems much simpler to just use keccak instead of randomx in core_tests. It speeds up massively and avoids issues of bad cache (that's what I use). Then again, if the default is to not cache, I'm ok with this patch too.

## mj-xmr | 2021-03-15T17:49:01+00:00
> It seems much simpler to just use keccak instead of randomx in core_tests. It speeds up massively and avoids issues of bad cache (that's what I use). Then again, if the default is to not cache, I'm ok with this patch too.

An interesting idea to explore.

I set the caching to OFF by default.

# Action History
- Created by: mj-xmr | 2021-03-07T15:21:49+00:00
