---
title: add a max levin packet size by command type
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7248
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-01-01T00:59:14+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-01-07T02:08:32+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2021-01-07T02:08:32+00:00'
merged_at: '2021-01-07T02:08:31+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2021-01-01T18:33:25+00:00
A sorted `std::vector` or a `boost::container::flat_map` would get better cache locality and require little changes. The values are currently constant, so they could be in a [fixed `static constexpr` array with a `std::lower_bound` lookup](L80).

If there isn't going to be unique values per-connection (eventually), the map should also be moved to some reusable location (or the constant version used) so the memory isn't duplicated. The config in levin handler actually make some sense - there's already a max packet value there, so the `net_node.inl` code can initialize this when it sets the "handler".

## vtnerd | 2021-01-01T18:35:14+00:00
A check needs to be added around 472 - the fragmented packet case where tor/i2p transactions are sent in fixed sized messages at randomized intervals.

## vtnerd | 2021-01-01T18:36:38+00:00
I'm not sure how effective this patch will be - an attacker can just choose these message types for an attack. Presumably more work could be done "on top of this patch, but this "hole" is seems difficult to fix.

## vtnerd | 2021-01-01T18:37:47+00:00
This group of values - the ping and request flags in particular - seem pretty aggressive and might make expansion complicated. Although it seems unlikely that they get changed at all.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-01-01T19:28:47+00:00
I'm not sure what check you want, I di not understand that cusrom code.

## vtnerd | 2021-01-01T23:52:52+00:00
The `m_current_header` has the levin header just like it does on this line. So the check is identical.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-01-02T18:15:25+00:00
It's very small so I kept to a linear search, simpler (for me).

## vtnerd | 2021-01-03T04:07:00+00:00
Are these values going to be per-connection modified? This can still be per-zone (at least) or even constant array.

And `std::lower_bound` provides the insert location of a sorted array (possible `end()`). It works with `std::pair` directly in this case, but is comparing the second element unnecessarily. Otherwise it requires a custom lambda which is a pita.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-01-03T13:09:13+00:00
Probably not per connection (though maybe for Tor/I2P since those don't get blocks so those can be set to 0), but possibly over time, to match expected block size. I guess I'll make it a binary search since you insist.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2021-01-01T00:59:14+00:00
- Merged at: 2021-01-07T02:08:31+00:00
