---
title: '[seraphis] wallet2: replace ambiguous ''multisig()'' function with ''multisig_status''
  struct'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7852
author: UkoeHB
assignees: []
labels:
- carrot
created_at: '2021-08-11T16:52:26+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-05-21T19:38:07+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-05-21T03:36:53+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-05-21T03:36:53+00:00'
---

# Original Description
## Summary

This is a PR in my 'upstreaming seraphis_lib project'. Refactoring with this PR will make it easier to transition to seraphis in the future, since the seraphis multisig wallet will use `multisig::multisig_account_status`.

- Replaces `wallet2::multisig()` with `wallet2::get_multisig_status()`, which returns a `multisig::multisig_account_status` struct containing info about the wallet's transformation into a 'multisig wallet'.

## Explanation

- The function `wallet2::multisig()` is ambiguous (returns `true` if the wallet `is_multisig`), and badly defined (uses return by pointer reference to set variables related to the wallet's multisig status).
- It is also awkward to extend, requiring an updated function signature. I want to add `kex_rounds_remaining` to the status, which is much cleaner to do with an added member in the return struct `multisig_status`.

This PR is intended to improve code quality. Note that `wallet2_api` uses a similar pattern already (a `MultisigState` struct).

## Future PRs
- Add `kex_rounds_remaining` to status, to show how many more rounds of communication are required before a multisig address is complete.

# Discussion History
## UkoeHB | 2021-08-11T16:53:59+00:00
Bug fix. There should be at least one message per other participant here (if there are more messages, it isn't necessarily a problem).

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-11T16:54:36+00:00
Bug fix, `threshold` is an unsigned int so arbitrary subtractions risk integer overflow.

On the other hand, if multisig is 'ready', then its threshold should already be validated, and only thresholds > 0 will ever be allowed. Maybe I should roll this back.

However, I do think these semantics better reflect the intention: num_msgs + 1 should usually equal the number of multisig signers, while `threshold - 1` has no semantic significance.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-11T16:59:45+00:00
The PR's core change.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-12T06:46:02+00:00
Add `rounds_remaining` to rpc response for `is_multisig()`, so callers can directly know how many more key exchange rounds there are before the address will be complete (i.e. number of times remaining to call `exchange_multisig_keys()`). @rbrunner7 is this helpful?

## rbrunner7 | 2021-08-12T06:50:59+00:00
Yes, I think info about how many key exchange rounds are remaining can certainly be helpful.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-01T23:06:25+00:00
Trivial, but this can be `const` (and several more times below).

## vtnerd | 2021-12-01T23:15:08+00:00
These structs are duplicates, and the naming schemes are different :/

Is there somewhere `monero::MultisigState` can be placed to so that `wallet2` can re-use it? The problem seems to be that `src/wallet` and `src/wallet/api` aren't supposed to include header files from each other _in the header_ (only in the source of `src/wallet/api`).

## UkoeHB | 2021-12-03T15:23:38+00:00
I am pretty confused about the purpose/use of `src/wallet/api`.

The correct architecture should be like this:
- multisig should be in `namespace cryptonote { namespace multisig { } }`
- wallets should own a `cryptonote::multisig::multisig_account` class object that handles all multisig account operations
- `cryptonote::multisig::multisig_account` should have a member function `get_status()` that returns a `cryptonote::multisig::multisig_account_status` struct. Presumably, `WalletImpl` would also be able to use that struct.

Right now, `wallet2` haphazardly owns a lot of multisig account details. That's why I added `multisig_status` to `wallet2`.

I think I'll move `src/wallet/wallet2 multisig_account -> src/multisig/multisig multisig_account_status` so we are a little closer to the ideal architecture.

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-23T00:02:35+00:00
I would suggest this for best backwards compatibility 

```suggestion
        KV_SERIALIZE(ready)
        KV_SERIALIZE_OPT(kex_is_done, ready)
```

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-23T00:15:56+00:00
The value of `is_ready` is different from the old `ready` under this PR, no? There's an extra stipulation for it to be true: `m_multisig_rounds_passed >= multisig::multisig_kex_rounds_required(m_multisig_signers.size(), m_multisig_threshold)`. Could this cause downstream code to act differently?

## UkoeHB | 2024-02-23T01:11:52+00:00
It is the same, setup_rounds_required is always >= kex_rounds_required.

## UkoeHB | 2024-02-23T01:13:38+00:00
Is backwards compatibility actually a concern for RPC responses?

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-23T02:16:47+00:00
Not for this codebase, but it would be it would be a problem for downstream code if they used `wallet_rpc_server_commands_defs.h`. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-23T02:20:59+00:00
Are these setup rounds after the key exchange rounds?

## UkoeHB | 2024-02-23T02:33:19+00:00
> Are these setup rounds after the key exchange rounds?

Kex rounds are a subset of setup rounds.

## UkoeHB | 2024-02-23T02:34:23+00:00
@selsta what is the policy on this?

## selsta | 2024-02-23T17:37:56+00:00
I think we usually don't care about downstream code that use `src/wallet/wallet_rpc_server_commands_defs.h`, at least I'm not aware of any such projects that make use of it.

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-23T17:44:03+00:00
Okay fine then I'll drop it

# Action History
- Created by: UkoeHB | 2021-08-11T16:52:26+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-05-21T03:36:53+00:00
