---
title: Rawpart
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7774
author: hyc
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-07-07T11:29:34+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-07-03T22:25:12+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2022-07-03T22:25:12+00:00'
merged_at: '2022-07-03T22:25:12+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Add support for storing database on a raw device/partition. Can improve write performance.
Also may be useful for storing DB on removable storage (USB flash drives, etc.) for transporting
between online and offline daemons, and precludes the possibility of viruses hiding in a filesystem
(since there is no filesystem to hide in).

For use with monerod, would need to manually symlink &lt;data-dir&gt;/lmdb to the target device name.

This is only supported for POSIX systems, not WIN32. While there may be a way to access raw
devices in Windows, that usually requires Administrator access.

Note: currently monerod can't use this feature. Its startup checks for whether the target path is
a directory and if it supports mmap are interfering, they need to be skipped.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2021-07-08T19:06:18+00:00
Should this check be done after LMDB initializes (and therefore the flags could be checked for !rawpart) ?

## vtnerd | 2022-06-03T13:35:42+00:00
Is it possible to have `RAWPART == true` but `WRITEMAP == false`? Not questioning the logic or asking for a code change, I'm asking for my understanding of how LMDB works.

## vtnerd | 2022-06-03T13:39:35+00:00
This has me completely lost - I have a rough idea of what the code is doing, I just don't understand how this constant was chosen.

Shouldn't this somehow probe the size of the "rawpart" ? Or was this chosen as a sufficiently large value; the OS handles "trapping" writes outside of the RAWPART through interrupts/errors.

## hyc | 2022-06-03T14:05:52+00:00
The 2MB size is an optimal alignment for Flash memory erase blocks. Smaller may not be properly aligned for all devices, larger is not necessary.

## hyc | 2022-06-03T14:06:33+00:00
Yes, and `WRITEMAP` is usually false on most deployments.

## vtnerd | 2022-06-03T20:13:58+00:00
Ahh ok I did in fact misunderstand this slightly, thanks for the clarification.

## vtnerd | 2022-06-03T20:15:46+00:00
Yeah sorry, brainfart. Everything in *Nix is a file, so this is just opening the rawpart like any other file  (albeit one with a fixed size and location on disk) that gets written to like normal.

# Action History
- Created by: hyc | 2021-07-07T11:29:34+00:00
- Merged at: 2022-07-03T22:25:12+00:00
