---
title: 'RPC server: thread safety (+ small fix to on_getblockhash)'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7936
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-09-12T09:20:09+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-04-06T03:36:40+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2022-04-06T03:36:40+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
### Overview 

From @moneromooo-monero in IRC:

> The daemon RPC is also not really thread safe.
Stuff like getinfo can get you inconsistent data, technically.
Like, read curent height, block gets added, read current difficulty.

From @hyc :

> eh, getinfo should be using a single read txn around all of its steps
so yeah, there ought to be a block_rtxn_start() call near the beginning and an rtxn_stop() call near the end of that
I guess that function has now been wrapped in db_rtxn_guard

###  RPC Functions made thread safe

I used an `rtxnguard` to make the following functions thread safe:

- on_get_info
- on_get_blocks
- on_get_blocks_by_height
- on_get_transaction_pool_hashes_bin
- on_get_transaction_pool_hashes
- on_getblockhash
- on_getblocktemplate
- on_get_last_block_header
- on_get_block_header_by_hash
- on_get_block_headers_range
- on_get_block_header_by_height
- on_get_block
- on_get_coinbase_tx_sum
- on_get_alternate_chains
- on_get_txpool_backlog

+ fixed a small bug where `on_getblockhash` would return a 0 hash when the height requested exceeds blockchain height.

### Will make the following thread safe in separate PR(s)

- on_flush_txpool
- on_get_transactions
- on_get_transaction_pool
- on_is_key_image_spent
- on_send_raw_tx
- on_submitblock
- on_generateblocks
- on_pop_blocks
- on_relay_tx
- on_get_output_distribution
- on_get_output_distribution_bin
- on_prune_blockchain
- on_flush_cache
- on_hard_fork_info
- on_sync_info
- on_rpc_access_info
- on_rpc_access_submit_nonce

+ found a small bug in `on_get_transactions`, will patch separately as well
+ the daemon handler

EDIT: I updated this PR based on @hyc's comments below. When I first submitted the PR, I only included the `db_rtxn_guard` in `get_info`; now the PR includes it in more functions so that there are no visible in-between conditions on db reads. I will wait to squash commits until the PR looks good to go, so changes from my prior commit before @hyc's comments are accessible.

I originally included the following comment in the PR description (which is what @hyc was responding to below):

> [Aside from get_info] Other functions seem to behave correctly regardless AFAICT, so didn't really do much here beyond [update get_info]. For example, on_is_key_image_spent first checks the chain for spent key images, then checks the pool. If a key gets added to the pool after reading the chain but before reading the pool, seems like you'd still want the function to return that the key image has been spent.

I understand how this logic was not ideal for a number of reasons.

I didn't include `on_is_key_image_spent` in this PR since I realized [spent key images are read from memory when checking the pool](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a39b1d56c8835798e2f5e3cc43c33b5f2d8e13da/src/cryptonote_core/tx_pool.cpp#L1043), so seems it'll need a bigger change to make thread safe.

# Discussion History
## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-07T13:34:34+00:00
This could be moved a bit further down, about 8 lines, to after the test about restriction.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-07T13:39:55+00:00
Of course not terribly important, but if we are at it anyway already, the test about restriction could come first, then the lock, and only then the check against current blockchain height.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-07T13:44:18+00:00
This could get the blockchain db locked for an awfully long time, which might hold up all other things quite a bit, but at least the sum would be correct to the piconero :)

## j-berman | 2022-01-09T02:12:03+00:00
It's using a read-only LMDB transaction to ensure consistent reads of the db, which doesn't lock out writers. From the [LMDB docs](http://www.lmdb.tech/doc/starting.html):

> as long as a transaction is open, a consistent view of the database is kept alive, which requires storage. A read-only transaction that no longer requires this consistent view should be terminated (committed or aborted) when the view is no longer needed (but see below for an optimization).

> There can be multiple simultaneously active read-only transactions but only one that can write. Once a single read-write transaction is opened, all further attempts to begin one will block until the first one is committed or aborted. This has no effect on read-only transactions, however, and they may continue to be opened at any time.

I also tested behavior in this PR generally by using `usleep` + a local test env so I can mine blocks quickly. Can test behavior like this for example:

```
bool core_rpc_server::on_get_coinbase_tx_sum(const COMMAND_RPC_GET_COINBASE_TX_SUM::request& req, COMMAND_RPC_GET_COINBASE_TX_SUM::response& res, epee::json_rpc::error& error_resp, const connection_context *ctx)
  {
    RPC_TRACKER(get_coinbase_tx_sum);
    db_rtxn_guard rtxn_guard(&m_core.get_blockchain_storage().get_db());
    const uint64_t bc_height = m_core.get_current_blockchain_height();

    printf("Height before sleep: %lu\n", bc_height);
    // sleep, then mine some blocks while asleep, then make sure height still reads the same after waking up
    usleep(1000 * 1000 * 30);

    // can even call status (or other RPC calls) from the daemon while asleep and see *those* would return latest height before this next line prints
    printf("Height after sleep: %lu\n", m_core.get_current_blockchain_height());
```

I could even make an RPC call to `on_get_coinbase_sum` again and grab another read txn guard and the daemon proceeds to fall asleep, while the first `on_get_coinbase_sum` was still asleep.


## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-09T04:50:14+00:00
Interesting. So experience from other databases does not carry over 1-to-1 to LMDB, as it can do more in parallel as databases can usually do.

And yeah, your test here really settles the issue.

## hyc | 2022-01-09T14:04:13+00:00
Yes, LMDB is rather unique in its capabilities.

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2021-09-12T09:20:09+00:00
- Closed at: 2022-04-06T03:36:40+00:00
