---
title: Run tests in parallel, whenever possible
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7283
author: mj-xmr
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-01-05T18:50:40+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-08-04T08:21:28+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
using `tests/run-tests-parallel.sh` script.

With the current simplistic approach I was able to achieve a 20% speedup. This new, small test execution framework will allow for further improvements in the future, by separating conflicting portions of code (or simply by selecting non-conflicting ports of monerod).

The speedup was calculated by summing up the time taken by tests, which were being ran while others, longer tests were running (dt), and was divided by the sum of (total run time + dt).

The test run script has a fuse box. If the tests fail for any reason, they are being restarted using a single core. Note, that it's the tests that fail the most often (rpc tests failing randomly) and quickest (unit tests), which are being ran at the beginning, giving you a hint early enough.

Work time: ~6.7h plus a day of passive tests while doing something else.

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2021-01-06T03:17:17+00:00
A fixed number of jobs here seems somewhat undesirable; it would be nice if the script picked a suitable default (based on `nproc`) and allowed a user to override it.

## iamamyth | 2021-01-06T03:23:40+00:00
As best as I can tell, ctest returns a non-zero exit status if a test fails, meaning this `||` ends up double-running the test suite on failure. Even if it worked right, I'm not sure it's a good idea, as it seems prudent to expose test runner issues to users so they can be fixed (e.g. if users can specify a parallelism override, then a failure can be manually overridden as needed and hopefully addressed at some juncture, rather than papered over by this wrapper).

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-06T07:48:22+00:00
You understand it correctly.

I'm ok with removing the "|| ctest", but I'd like to hear a 3rd opinion. My rationale is, that it would prevent failures of the parallelism itself. Imagine, that somebody adds a new test, which like the 2 excluded ones is incompatible with the core tests. To fix the CI, you'd need to call the maintainer. Otherwise, with "|| ctest" you could just get along with your high priority task and wait until somebody fixes the parallelism, independently of your task.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-06T08:03:04+00:00
I was thinking about it. For the first 2 tests more than 2 cores obviously doesn't make sense.

For the second part adding more cores will actually only prolong the test time. It can't currently get any lower, since core_tests take much more time, than all the other tests combined, so already with 2 cores, you experience thread starvation, because of the too long time of core tests. Adding more cores at this time (say nproc as an extreme), will only make the longest test core_tests run longer, since the CPU cache is used up quicker at the beginning, and then when the other test finish sooner, the cache will not be used any better by the core_tests.

So adding more cores will only help, if the core tests are split into many more, independent pieces, which I will be doing later. It's been contracted by my CCS proposal. Only after I do it, it will be reasonable to increase the number of cores, or let the user select it.

A general remark to everybody: please don't treat my changes as the final state, but just an iteration, in order to keep the PRs small (but still mergable). 20% gain for such a small change is in my opinion worth it. Plus, the testing time is currently the largest bottleneck of the CI.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-06T12:55:29+00:00
And one more remark.
To specify a parallelism override, it's enough for the user just to call `ctest` in the build directory.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-06T15:47:11+00:00
So maybe it would make sense to do the following two moves at the same time:

1) remove the || ctest from the bash script and make it parallel only, with an adjustable number of cores in future, once it makes sense.
2) move the || ctest into the Makefile, after the runner script is now being called, so that the CI doesn't suffer from sudden breaks of the script.


## iamamyth | 2021-01-06T20:46:19+00:00
> move the || ctest into the Makefile, after the runner script is now being called, so that the CI doesn't suffer from sudden breaks of the script.

I had thought to suggest this in my earlier comment. But, I see some other options:

1. Add a Makefile target specifically for CI.
2. Have CI run `|| ctest`, rather than including this in the Makefile, as it's really something an ordinary user of the Makefile doesn't typically want or need.

That said, I don't agree with the premise of CI parallelism blocking progress. If a commit causes CI to start failing, that commit should fix the problem (e.g. by not running the new tests in parallel). Otherwise, you'll end up simply never running anything in parallel, because someone will break build parallelism, hit the `||` and not notice the breakage, and master will continue with serial builds. Either the parallelism should be useful and minimally invasive to contributors, such that it's worth their time to fix parallelism-induced issues, or, it shouldn't exist at all.

## iamamyth | 2021-01-06T20:53:46+00:00
If certain tests should never run in parallel, and others have a maximum parallelism factor, then you can (and should) limit the maximum number of runners based on the tests (i.e. `nproc` is an upper bound). The point is that using two runners on a single-core setup actively makes things worse, which means some kind of variability is important. Once you accept that premise, it's little extra work (a single branch) to permit users to decide the upper limit, rather than defaulting to `nproc` (and, this feature seems important, otherwise you're potentially making things worse for people who have multiple cores but don't want to dedicate more than one to the build).

> A general remark to everybody: please don't treat my changes as the final state, but just an iteration, in order to keep the PRs small (but still mergable)

No PR is ever a "final state", the question is whether the change makes sense enough on its own. Here, for example, everyone gets stuck with -j2, even if they only have a single core to run the tests. One could argue that is a real step backwards for many users.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-06T21:00:39+00:00
To this I fully agree. I should take the minimum between 2 and nproc, or even of 2 and (nproc-1), since a single core setup with a virtual core won't make it any faster either, except maybe for the situation when core_tests are blocked by IO or network.

So would this logic be OK?

```
num cores = min(2, nproc - 1)
if (num_cores < 1) 
{ // in case we're dealing with a single core CPU without a virtual core
   num_cores = 1
}
```


## mj-xmr | 2021-01-06T21:06:49+00:00
Alright.

## iamamyth | 2021-01-06T22:30:05+00:00
Seems OK.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-07T08:00:35+00:00
Notice, that I smuggled -D BUILD_SHARED_LIBS=ON, in order to leverage faster linkage and less disk space usage for the release version, which is static by default.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-07T08:48:07+00:00
The new CI target has a default of nproc preset as an env var, and the runner script also has a default of nproc, if the env var isn't set. Then it tries to find the minimum between nproc (or the forced setting) and the **currently** reasonable value of 2 jobs.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-07T11:14:14+00:00
In the end, I've decided not to pretend, that a single core machine has 2 logical cores by default (re: nproc -1). If it has, then as said before, the core tests have some IO/Network blocking moments, when other tests may run in the virtual thread. If this is not wanted for a single physical core with 1 virtual core, then I let the user preset this with the environment variable.

## iamamyth | 2021-01-07T20:31:00+00:00
Not really a big deal, but do you need this feature? Seems the CI runner can just not set anything and get the default, makes everything a bit simpler.

## iamamyth | 2021-01-07T20:34:13+00:00
If you're using bash here, might as well switch to `[[`, that way you skip an invocation of the `test` program.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-07T21:53:20+00:00
I cover here two distinct use cases at the same time:

1) The new target in the Makefile sets the variable to nproc, so the minimum information is satisfied, but can be also changed in the future.

2) Manually `cd` into the build directory by hand (not by the `make release-test-ci` ) and calling the runner with `../../tests/run-tests-parallel.sh`, without having to bother about some env vars. One could then theoretically call `ctest -j$(nproc)`, but we know that it's currently not enough and it wouldn't work.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-07T21:58:46+00:00
I didn't know this. I've done formal trainings in OO languages, but Bash was always just a hobby.

## hyc | 2021-01-08T09:13:05+00:00
I don't think it's a good idea to assume that bash is being used. Should always target vanilla sh.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-08T10:52:23+00:00
The logic got much more complex, than in the initial state, so if I have to switch to sh, I will prefer to do it in Python3 after all. The majority of time was consumed by gathering requirements anyway.

## iamamyth | 2021-01-09T01:28:48+00:00
These function looks very much like run_all, they could easily be one function which accepts a `fail_fast` param; e.g.:
```
def run(nproc, fail_fast=False):
    cmds = [get_test_command(...), ...]
    error = False
    for cmd in cmds:
        status = run_cmd(cmd)
        if status != 0:
            if fail_fast:
                return status
            error = True
    return ERR_CODE if error else 0
```

## iamamyth | 2021-01-09T01:33:46+00:00
The spacing style in this file is a bit inconsistent: Sometimes it uses the variant required by shells (`var=val`, no spaces), and sometimes the variant strongly encouraged, though not required, in python (`var = val`, single space on each side of `=`). I would opt for the latter across the board (it's a little jarring as a reader to see different programming styles in a single context).

## iamamyth | 2021-01-09T01:37:02+00:00
A bit easier on the eyes, and saves a dict lookup, to just fetch the key and catch the exception:
```
try:
    ceiling = os.environ['MONERO_PARALLEL_TEST_JOBS']
except KeyError:
    ceiling = multiprocessing.cpu_count()
else:
    if ceiling == 'nproc':
        ceiling = multiprocessing.cpu_count()
    else:
        ceiling = int(ceiling)
```

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-09T04:52:30+00:00
Yeah, it was a bit of copy paste here.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-09T04:53:59+00:00
Makes sense. Although I always have [this](https://softwareengineering.stackexchange.com/questions/189222/are-exceptions-as-control-flow-considered-a-serious-antipattern-if-so-why) mind.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-09T06:45:36+00:00
Done, but [this principle](https://www.informit.com/articles/article.aspx?p=1392524) kept me from doing this initially. In python at least you can name the parameter in a call.

## iamamyth | 2021-01-09T19:19:47+00:00
Two things:
1. I find it best not to require the reviewer to read forum links and similar (I'm not much inclined to visit stackexchange), and instead briefly state whatever may be contained therein that you find relevant.
2. As I can glean the contents of the argument from the URL, I will simply state that most arguments of the form "x pattern is bad" tend to be irrelevant on their own: In general, the pattern exists because it can be useful; like all tools, when improperly used, it can be harmful. So, the question is, whether the pattern proves reasonable in a particular context. Here, the exception-based version is quite readable, as it's a standard python idiom, and the overhead isn't a concern, but, if you don't like exceptions, then you could instead use `.get`.

## iamamyth | 2021-01-09T19:30:19+00:00
Same thoughts as in the below case, but I will merely add, the function here does one thing: Run the test commands and return a status code; it just may not run *all* the commands, depending on the value of `fail_fast`. Anyways, this is a great example of principle-vs-principle being unhelpful: "DRY" vs. "boolean arguments are bad" gets you nowhere. The better questions to ask might be: "does this function make sense as a concept?"; "can I easily describe, e.g. in form of a comment, what this function does?"; "is the internal complexity of the function incredibly high, such that it needs an alternate composition?"; etc. The fact that the shell execution environment, which you ended up replacing, provides an option to bail on command failure, strongly suggests that the complexity incurred by such a strategy is in no way unreasonable.

## mj-xmr | 2021-02-08T16:09:36+00:00
The discussion under the link suggests, that: 
1) In general it's not a good approach to use exceptions for controlling the logic
2) In Python it's actually expected to use them this way. Most probably, because the runtime overhead of exceptions in case of Python is much lower than in other languages

So my thinking is, that we shouldn't be doing this for the core implementation, but I will leave it like it is for Python. Providing a link brings more context and more independent voices (and votes for the voices, in case of StackExchange). I hope that my 2 above points would describe the content under the link well enough.

Anyway, for me the PR is ready, and if you have no more comments, I'd ask you to approve.
Cheers.

## mj-xmr | 2021-02-08T16:13:11+00:00
The point of Uncle Bob here (as well in his book), is that whenever there is a boolean parameter, it suggests, that there should be 2 functions. 
But I'm not here to argue about principles, really. If the reviewers prefer it this way, I'm OK with this. Both approaches have pros and cons, but again, in Python at least you can name the boolean parameter when calling the function, so I would still avoid doing the same in C++.

## mj-xmr | 2021-04-04T20:01:59+00:00
@selsta : Since the mining test ("Functional") is now stable, do you think I could set the fail fast to True?

Because of the currently unstable test `node_server.bind_same_p2p_port` I think I would leave it to false for the same reason.

Otherwise, the PR is ready to be merged from my POV.

## mj-xmr | 2021-04-05T15:58:56+00:00
The above test will be fixed with: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7646

## selsta | 2021-04-05T15:59:48+00:00
I don't like the concept of fail fast personally. I want to see everything that fails.

## mj-xmr | 2021-04-05T16:14:48+00:00
Then I will remove that TODO from line 104.

# Action History
- Created by: mj-xmr | 2021-01-05T18:50:40+00:00
