---
title: Fix export_transfers amount for send-to-self outputs
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7926
author: jagerman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-09-08T21:48:36+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-09-22T20:52:04+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
When you send a transaction to yourself then `export_transfers` outputs the wrong amount (and thus balance) in the exported file.

This happens because the unconfirmed transfer only has the actual change amount constructed in the transaction, but proper balance tracking requires identifying *all* outputs returning to the same wallet as change for the purposes of export details.

This fixes the issue by updating the change amount in the transaction to be the sum of all received outputs, instead of just the constructed change value.

(Note that the same issue does *not* occur if we receive the transaction in another copy of the wallet -- in that case all the outputs to self are already counted as change).

I've attached export csv files demonstrating the problem and fix, using a transfer of 6 outputs: 3 to my own wallet of values 0.01, 0.02, 0.03; and 3 to another wallet with the same amounts:
[0-premined.csv](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/files/7131970/0-premined.csv) - the export before the transfer is mined, showing an amount of 0.14 out.  (This is sort of wrong, but happens because unconfirmed transfer details do not look for transfers-to-self.  This is not affected by this PR.).
[1-mined.csv](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/files/7131971/1-mined.csv) - a mined output, showing the wrong amount (shows 0.14 out instead of 0.07 out).
[2-rescan_bc.csv](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/files/7131973/2-rescan_bc.csv) - showing what you get if you `rescan_bc` (or export from another wallet), showing the correct 0.07 out.
[3-fixed.csv](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/files/7131974/3-fixed.csv)- another transfer with this patch applied, using the same recipients and amounts as before, this time showing the correct 0.07 out (post-mining).


# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: jagerman | 2021-09-08T21:48:36+00:00
