---
title: 'boosted_tcp_server: fix connection lifetime'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7308
author: selsta
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-01-12T09:38:29+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-02-19T22:56:53+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2021-02-16T02:54:04+00:00'
merged_at: '2021-02-16T02:54:04+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2021-01-12T20:15:12+00:00
Good grief.

I'm being lazy (at the moment) by not running this locally, but `start_outer_call()` and `finish_outer_call()` shouldn't be needed in the change. The issue is that you cannot modify `m_connects` while iterating over it. The lock protects against other threads, but it is a recursive lock so the callback can interfere with the container.

```c++
std::vector<typename connections_map::mapped_type> conn{m_connects};
for (auto &aph : conn)
```
should be sufficient and incur less CPU penalty.

The `start_outer_call()` isn't needed because `m_connects_lock` protects other threads from removing the connection, and if the callback tries to destroy the connection the destructor waits for 60s before blowing up. Which means the callback cannot destroy the connection in this design.

## vtnerd | 2021-01-12T20:15:31+00:00
This should also be unnecessary. The `m_connects_lock` provides protects other threads from destroying the object, and the callback cannot destroy the connection object safely.

## vtnerd | 2021-01-12T20:34:19+00:00
Or wait, copying the `.second` requires more than a constructor call but I think the idea is clear.

## vtnerd | 2021-01-12T22:59:22+00:00
Disregard.

## vtnerd | 2021-01-12T22:59:26+00:00
Disregard.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-01-19T13:33:08+00:00
AFAICT, this would mean operations get started on shutdown connections. Why is this needed, rather then let those operations fail in the first place ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-01-19T14:26:33+00:00
Explained on IRC: this can actually be called with an object from a caller which has no ref to the object. Which sounds dodgy but this can only happen if the object is in the m_connects set of connections while another thread still holds a ref.

## vtnerd | 2021-01-23T07:23:06+00:00
Operations could be requested after shutdown before or after this change. The lock was immediately released a few lines below, with requests for sending data occurring after that. This might cause some more calls into the send function to fail, but it doesn't appear incorrect.

There's still a "race" to the `add_invoke_response_handler` call but that should only delay cleanup of the object until the async invoke timeout is triggered.

# Action History
- Created by: selsta | 2021-01-12T09:38:29+00:00
- Merged at: 2021-02-16T02:54:04+00:00
