---
title: 'systemd: Revamp and harden systemd configuration to make full use of systemd
  sandboxing capabilities'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7329
author: ghost
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-01-20T03:53:00+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-01-28T10:47:04+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2021-01-28T04:37:00+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## jtgrassie | 2021-01-25T08:45:18+00:00
This shouldn't be needed.

## deleted_user | 2021-01-26T01:29:20+00:00
If you mean that the `ExecStop=/usr/local/bin/monerod exit` directive isn't needed, I've removed that directive in commit `cb5b8f5`.

## jtgrassie | 2021-01-26T01:33:02+00:00
This is not needed as already the service name.

## deleted_user | 2021-01-26T01:34:05+00:00
Oh, right. I forgot about that.

## jtgrassie | 2021-01-26T01:37:28+00:00
This seems wrong/unduly long. Please double check the documentation of these to ensure an appropriate value is used.

## deleted_user | 2021-01-26T01:52:45+00:00
The decision to set `TimeoutStopSec` to five minutes was inspired by Bitcoin's decision to set theirs to 10 minutes. See their rationale in commit [`99cebc9`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/commit/99cebc922cba1590ea663d6ef3109c0cf2960b9d#diff-6ca46037cb8f71de1d76344d1892f28d00ccd5b9e09725842809d288293abbbf).

I found 10 minutes to be overkill, so I halved it to five minutes.

The `systemd.service(5)` man page does not specify a recommended value for the `TimeoutStopSec=` directive. Similarly, the `systemd-system.conf(5)` man page does not specify a recommended value for the `DefaultTimeoutStopSec=` directive.

## jtgrassie | 2021-01-26T02:01:51+00:00
Simply copying Bitcoin's choice is not a good enough rational. These are different daemons with different shutdown actions. Normally the monerod daemon shutdown is is quick, no more than a few seconds. I'd expect anyone editing this file actually tests what an appropriate timeout should be rather than finger in the air guesswork.

## jtgrassie | 2021-01-26T02:10:12+00:00
I'm not clear why you're adding these more restrictive permissions . Bitcoin's example service adds things like this presumably because the Bitcoin daemon is also a _wallet_. Monero's daemon is _not_ a wallet and thus I'm not clear why there's such a need to restrict permissions beyond the default 755?

## deleted_user | 2021-01-26T04:15:51+00:00
Bitcoind's ordinary shutdown duration is also quick, and yet they saw fit to set `TimeoutStopSec=` to 10 minutes. But I digress.

The timeout will not be reached under ordinary circumstances. But in the event of an extraordinary situation where monerod takes much longer to gracefully stop, it is better to have a longer timeout than a shorter one. If the user does not want to wait the whole five minutes, then they can either manually send a `SIGKILL` or edit the `monerod.service` file to shorten the timeout duration for all future runs. After all, this file is a sample file. The user is free to adapt the file to their own needs.

## deleted_user | 2021-01-26T04:27:30+00:00
Why not? It is good security practice to restrict as much as possible without affecting functionality and stability, regardless of whether monerod is a wallet or not.

This proposed monerod.service file configures monerod to be run by the `monero` system user. There is therefore no need for other users both within and without the `monero` system group to have access to those directories. In fact, for even more robust sandboxing, `ConfigurationDirectoryMode=` can (and perhaps should) be set to `0400`, because monerod does not need to write to `/etc/monero`.

## jtgrassie | 2021-01-26T04:29:32+00:00
Fair enough.

## jtgrassie | 2021-01-26T04:32:19+00:00
Fair enough. How about `RestartSec`? 

## iamamyth | 2021-01-26T16:57:27+00:00
The config directory mode should most definitely be 0400 (letting the process alter its own service config can simplify certain attacks), but logs should probably be 0755 (letting non-privileged users view logs with mundane information can be helpful and shouldn't pose a risk).

## ndorf | 2021-01-26T22:10:01+00:00
Setting the mode to 0400 will not prevent the process from altering its own config. Since it's running as the user that owns the file, it can simply call chmod() and then modify the file. The correct way to do it would be to make it owned by user root, group monero, mode 0640 (or 0440). edit: Actually 0750 or 0550, since it's a directory, not a file.

## ndorf | 2021-01-26T22:26:52+00:00
Also, I would agree that logs should be either world- or at least group-readable.

## jtgrassie | 2021-01-27T16:55:56+00:00
Indeed, and why I raised the question. 0700 prevents a normal user viewing daemon logs. 

## jtgrassie | 2021-01-27T16:57:26+00:00
Thus I agree that "logs should be either world- or at least group-readable".

## deleted_user | 2021-01-28T00:31:31+00:00
It gives systemd time to restore the system to a pre-`monerod.service` state before the next run, after it receives a non-zero exit signal from `monerod` (because `Restart=` is set to `on-failure`).

The default `RestartSec=` value of 100 milliseconds is too short, especially on slower systems. A repeat of the memory exhaustion attack would also mean that the system may not have enough time to flush its swap memory before systemd relaunches monerod. One minute is long enough for systemd to do what it needs to do on slower systems, but not too long that it would be a significant annoyance.

Again, this is merely a sample unit file. The user is free to set a shorter `RestartSec=` value if they see fit. One minute between runs in `monerod.service`'s case is a good default for most systems.

## deleted_user | 2021-01-28T00:47:10+00:00
> Also, I would agree that logs should be either world- or at least group-readable.

There's `sudo [command]`, or `sudo --user=monero [command]` if the user does not want to view the logs as root, for that.

> Indeed, and why I raised the question. 0700 prevents a normal user viewing daemon logs.

Tor uses this approach (of setting `0700` for all of its directories), and it's emphatically not a wallet.

## ndorf | 2021-01-28T01:10:20+00:00
Why should one have to sudo just to view a logfile, which emphatically doesn't contain any sensitive information?

## ndorf | 2021-01-28T03:02:44+00:00
Further, many systems don't use sudo. That leaves you having to `su` to view the logfile. For what benefit, exactly?

# Action History
- Created by: ghost | 2021-01-20T03:53:00+00:00
- Closed at: 2021-01-28T04:37:00+00:00
