---
title: 'Warnings: treat warnings as errors: ''switch'' & ''return-type'''
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7481
author: mj-xmr
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-03-08T21:27:15+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-06-10T16:19:26+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2021-06-10T16:19:26+00:00'
merged_at: '2021-06-10T16:19:26+00:00'
---

# Original Description
 Treating such warnings as errors, that when ignored are so severe, that they can segfault or even [UB](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/ub) any application.

- `return-type`: aborts compilation when you forget to return a value from a function, when the caller expects it (or worse: there's a unnoticed branch of a complex function, which ends without returning the expected value)
- `switch`: aborts compilation when a new case isn't handled for a newly added enum entry. With this error in place, you can safely delete all `default:` cases made for runtime safety checks and enjoy static checks instead (so less need for time consuming  tests execution, as well as writing).

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2021-03-10T02:36:49+00:00
From the [Gcc docs](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Warning-Options.html):

> Warn whenever a switch statement has an index of enumerated type and lacks a case for one or more of the named codes of that enumeration. (The presence of a default label prevents this warning.) case labels outside the enumeration range also provoke warnings when this option is used (even if there is a default label). This warning is enabled by -Wall. 

The project should already have `-Wall` enabled, so this warning should already be enabled. And a `default` case disables the warning; the compiler doesn't track existing labels for new ones.

## vtnerd | 2021-03-10T02:38:29+00:00
`add_c_flag_if_supported` and `add_cxx_flag_if_supported` might be useful here.



## mj-xmr | 2021-03-10T15:58:42+00:00
Yes, `-Wall` is enabled. Once the `switch` warning is treated as error, I could then go through all the switch/cases and remove the `default:` labels, triggering a compilation warning treated as error, if a newly case was forgotten to be handled.

Maybe not all `default:` cases will be removable, but any default case, which throws an exception due to an unhandled case would be my target, as an example.

## mj-xmr | 2021-03-10T15:59:30+00:00
Good idea. Will do.

## mj-xmr | 2021-03-10T16:44:35+00:00
Done.

# Action History
- Created by: mj-xmr | 2021-03-08T21:27:15+00:00
- Merged at: 2021-06-10T16:19:26+00:00
