---
title: 'node_server: fix race condition'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7873
author: perfect-daemon
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-08-18T14:30:48+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-11-24T01:47:45+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2021-10-11T17:55:53+00:00'
merged_at: '2021-10-11T17:55:53+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## jagerman | 2021-08-18T18:01:58+00:00
No.

If you don't understand why placement new on a non-trivial class like this one is UB (and a memory leak) then please don't use it at all.

## perfect-daemon | 2021-08-18T20:10:05+00:00
Is it still memory leak with added `this->~p2p_connection_context_t` ?
Why is it undefined behaviour ?
What's about this place ?
https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/82149bfe441e56d5f9d72a13ffa25ce1df6d8391/contrib/epee/include/net/net_utils_base.h#L431


## jagerman | 2021-08-18T20:16:26+00:00
It's undefined behaviour because it doesn't destruct any members in the current object, it just rams new initialization of top of the existing members.  So the vector and the set, for instance, are never destructed and their allocated memory is never freed.

An explicit constructor would indeed explicitly destruct, and would therefore solve the UB.  But you still *shouldn't* do either because it is still a horrible abuse of the purpose of placement new (and it is horrible where it is being done in epee, too).

## vtnerd | 2021-08-18T20:31:38+00:00
Yeah if the constructor throws on line 131, then the object is in UB zombie state.

I'm also not a fan of using the copy-constructor and copy-assignment like this. Its not actually copying the source object. Just create a new function and call it on the single line (IIRC) that needs this functionality.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-18T20:32:45+00:00
The other reason for a new function is that the base class might have the same problem at some point. So some properly named function would be useful.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-20T18:18:57+00:00
We're now aliasing the purpose of the `connection_context` concept in another file, and technically the raciness of the original code was never fixed since the context copies everything including UUID objects, etc.

Just mark the copy+move constructors+operators as deleted, and add a named function that copies the useful fields for the async callback. Ideally the fields copied would be the bare minimum needed (the UUID probably doesn't actually need to be touched, etc).

## vtnerd | 2021-08-20T18:34:28+00:00
A second lookup is unnecessary.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-20T18:36:44+00:00
`sent_addresses` only works because it is only modified in receive functions that are in a strand, and the single `operator=` call also happens to only occur in that same strand. Add a comment about this, as its far easier to botch than the Dandelion++ fields that were removed.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-20T18:50:13+00:00
This copies `zone` twice, how about an explicit struct to prevent that ref-count destroying change? Its not really much code.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-20T18:50:29+00:00
Same here.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-20T19:04:43+00:00
Or let me re-state my argument -

The problematic line is the single (implicit) copy-assignment call. The copy+move constructor+assignment should (almost certainly in hindsight) be deleted from the context object since it is read+write by multiple threads. Or a thread-safe explicit version should be created. Its too easy to add a field and be unaware that there's an unsynchronized copy that occurs elsewhere due to the implicit function.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-21T22:00:38+00:00
Rename `on_handshake_complete` as that is equally important to the connection status, and refactor could easily lose this pertinent information.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-21T22:11:13+00:00
I went back through the code again, and this suggestion is a pain but doable. The duplicate `context` class and tracking logic is unfortunate, but might be the lesser of evils at the moment. Ideally those values are in the "real" context, with copying/moving disabled on that class.

I'll investigate if that call sequence with the copies can be re-thought. The context object is huge to be copied, when only like 5 trivial fields max are needed.





# Action History
- Created by: perfect-daemon | 2021-08-18T14:30:48+00:00
- Merged at: 2021-10-11T17:55:53+00:00
