---
title: 'core_tests: Caching generation, take 1: get_block_longhash()'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7300
author: mj-xmr
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-01-09T08:41:05+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-02-08T19:39:10+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2021-02-08T19:39:10+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Using a static std::map in order to store the hashes, generated by get_block_longhash()

The core_tests run about 42% faster (from 3619 down to 2100 seconds).

Faster core_tests, means better leveraging of parallel test runs, resulting from [this branch](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7283), since they're the longest ones.

I'd like to know if you'd like me to continue in this fashion, or should I try to find more sophisticated solutions, which would require a lot of redesign in my view for a similar gain.
If I should continue this way, then please tell me it the further improvements of core_tests can be put into this branch.

Work time: 2h

# Discussion History
## mj-xmr | 2021-01-09T11:54:52+00:00
I envision, that the pattern could be used as a template of a map with a key_type and value_type as <K, V>, and accepting a lambda, used to generate the value. The question is, whether it's acceptable to use the static map. I fear of thread safety, when the map is used simultaneously, but against this the template could arrange scoped locks for its accessors internally.

In case you don't know, if your compiler supports it (it should in 2021), the C++11 standard requires a thread-safe initialization of static local variables.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-09T13:38:26+00:00
Perhaps you have got other thoughts to share, before I go all-in with this methodology?

## selsta | 2021-01-09T13:45:05+00:00
When using monerod normally, are there also cache hits? That is something to consider. If there are always cache misses (outside core tests) then this might not be a good idea.

## mj-xmr | 2021-01-09T14:00:46+00:00
I'm currently mostly into reducing the testing time. Helping the normal operation wouldn't hurt, so I setup an experiment for this, but I don't see this code being called at all (whether cache be hit or missed). At least not while synchronizing.

# Action History
- Created by: mj-xmr | 2021-01-09T08:41:05+00:00
- Closed at: 2021-02-08T19:39:10+00:00
