---
title: Store RPC SSL key/cert for consistent authentication between runs
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7366
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-02-10T00:14:52+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-04-01T00:37:14+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2021-03-20T05:38:16+00:00'
merged_at: '2021-03-20T05:38:16+00:00'
---

# Original Description
`monerod` creates a new SSL certificate for RPC each run if the user does not provide a custom certificate. This stores the SSL key/cert in the data directory so that it can be re-used across runs. A user provided key always take precedence.

This will allow clients to perform some authentication - I am updating `wallet2` to store SSL fingerprints per host, and notify the user if the certificate changed since first use. A [working prototype for DANE/TLSA](https://github.com/vtnerd/monero/tree/improve/dane_tlsa) in the wallet also exists, which restricts the attack fingerprint of trust-on-first-use to the DNSSEC chain. This is imperfect, but an improvement over users using default settings with arbitrary RPC servers which has no authentication currently. Only DNSSEC is required, no paid certificates or constant certificate re-issues/signatures.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2021-02-10T10:40:39+00:00
It would be nice to use epee asserts so we get logs. I almost commented about the assert above too. Dying hard is a bit harsh.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-02-10T10:43:52+00:00
Should that not be inside the previous scope ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-02-10T10:46:28+00:00
The code above seems to save unencrypted

## vtnerd | 2021-02-10T20:13:43+00:00
I don't understand. This returns an error, and that error is logged (no assert here)?

The `assert` above is to never fail, and represents a coding error. The `shared_ptr` is never `NULL`, and the `assert` is declaring intent for anyone making changes.

## vtnerd | 2021-02-10T20:18:37+00:00
> The assert above is to never fail, and represents a coding error. The shared_ptr is never NULL, and the assert is declaring intent for anyone making changes.

Typically `assert`s are used (by me and some standardish coding practices) only internally within a class, but not from external values (i.e. defensive programming). That class is large, so maybe the invariant goes unnoticed. There's a few getter's that would need updating too though, and it adds to the code generation for the failure case. Which stinks because everything is basically in the header, without some major refactor.

## vtnerd | 2021-02-10T20:19:32+00:00
Initially there was a `wipeable_string` that was cleared and freed before closing the file. I'll move because the stye looks off.

## vtnerd | 2021-02-10T20:22:22+00:00
That is correct. I had code to store encrypted, and its fairly easy to add. But it doesn't work if someone is launching without TTY/console. I thought about refactoring the checks for password prompt so that it stores unencrypted in such scenarios, but I wasn't sure about it.

So - change so that `if (is_tty() and !password.empty()) { encrypt ... }` ? The log will contain a reasonable error when things go awry.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-02-10T20:46:55+00:00
I meant somehting like:

CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES(ctx, {EINVAL, boost::system::system_category()}, "Context is NULL");

It just makes it easier to debug with logs, and it done pretty much everywhere in monero. 

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-02-10T20:49:24+00:00
This was mostly a comment about the comment being the opposite of the code. I guess encrypted is always better all other things being equal too, but I agree no TTY is annoying so I'm fine with either here.

## vtnerd | 2021-02-13T04:45:12+00:00
Switched two of the checks to this macro.

These macros and log macros are frustrating when trying to use as a library for downstream components. You have to accept the logging utility as-is, or do a complete re-compile with different macro definitions. It would be nice to roll-back their usage in crypto and tx code to librarize components. The easiest to change might be the macros that throw; the `std::exception` just needs the line number and filename and it has all of the information contained in the log message.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2021-02-10T00:14:52+00:00
- Merged at: 2021-03-20T05:38:16+00:00
