---
title: A couple P2P network layer improvements
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7054
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-12-02T20:28:00+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-12-07T16:04:26+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2020-12-07T16:04:26+00:00'
merged_at: '2020-12-07T16:04:25+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2020-12-02T21:31:14+00:00
This does not appear to be safe against overflow, although that possibility seems rather unlikely with current rules. Also, it seems a bit odd to specify widths for the p2p score field, but not for the increments.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-02T22:19:30+00:00
What do you mean by widths ?

## xiphon | 2020-12-03T18:53:18+00:00
Does this limit the protocol now to one request at a time? I would use a set instead.


## xiphon | 2020-12-03T18:55:26+00:00
Or even a map/vector so you can send multiple requests of the same type.

## iamamyth | 2020-12-03T23:18:06+00:00
By widths, I mean `int32` for the field vs. using a native unsigned int for the increment. If the goal is to clarify the mathematics with explicit integer bit-widths, best to use those everywhere; if the goal is to avoid false dependencies by using native integer types, that works, too; either way, it seems superior to be consistent.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-04T01:54:13+00:00
I don't think we pipeline requests anywhere.

## vtnerd | 2020-12-06T03:02:22+00:00
The namespace prefix can be dropped here, which I only recommend if changing for comment below.

## vtnerd | 2020-12-06T03:19:22+00:00
I realize this is a bit of a micro-optimization, but the `get_type_id()` calls cannot be re-ordered / optimized by compiler due to the as-if rule + virtual function. Not in the typical case. We should probably drop `type_id()` as a virtual method and make it a value in the struct itself allowing for more compiler optimizations. Either way, the change helps a bit (but mostly due to current vtable usage). The quick optimization would be:
```c++
if (typeid(*self_) == typeid(*other_self))
  return self_->is_same_host(*other_self)

const auto this_id = get_type_id();
if (this_id == ipv4_network_address::get_type_id() && other.get_type_id() == ipv6_network_address::get_type_id())
{
    ... // same
}
else if (this_id == ipv6_network_address::get_type_id() && other.get_type_id() == ipv4_network_address:get_type_id())
{
   ... // same
}

return false;
```

This takes 4-5 additional vtable calls down-to 0-3. This can also be reduced further, but `is_same_host` would need some logic for cross-type matching. Its probably easier to drop vtable usage for `get_type_id()` though.

## vtnerd | 2020-12-06T03:55:43+00:00
I haven't found a bug outright, as I haven't tracked down a sequence to break this, but it seems like this could be problematic with normal control flow. I could spend probably an hour or so to identify such a case if this technique seems particular useful at filtering out bad peers. I just dunno -

The calls are asynchronous. "Unmatched" really. Calls to the chain history and blocks are "notifications", no different than one-way block or tx notifications. The caller responds with a separate notification with the requested data. Its a pipelining technique - the caller isn't forcing the response to be the next message. There's likely cases where out-of-order responses is legit (2 threads servicing different notification calls to peer) but probably rare.

## vtnerd | 2020-12-06T04:00:53+00:00
Is this useful? I mean, wouldn't this imply that the peer was already dropped somehow? 

## vtnerd | 2020-12-06T04:50:18+00:00
Ok, I've thought about this some more. Legit responders should always do in-order responses. This is a side-effect of how the TCP server is designed more than anything. The requesting side does not enforce any order, and can probably issue multiple pipelined requests before a prior response. This is the difference between an `invoke` call and a `notification` call. The chain request and block requests are actually notifications, and the requester doesn't explicitly wait for a response which would block the thread (in the epee design).

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-06T13:45:42+00:00
This system only applies to get objects and get chain, not to things like new txes and new blocks. The former aren't pipelined, but a new tx or block in the middle will not break the check (unless you found a case where it does).

## SChernykh | 2020-12-06T15:21:34+00:00
This check is redundant now, I think you can just return false here

## vtnerd | 2020-12-06T20:14:36+00:00
Set `m_expect_response`?

All of these should be moved to `post_notify<>` which can check the type, and set the two tracking variables before sending the message. Its easy to miss/forget setting these variables when making changes.

## vtnerd | 2020-12-06T21:06:20+00:00
With regards to pipelining chain or block requests - a request for block or chain is typically in response to an unsolicited notification message. There's no explicit check to prevent another chain or block request while one is outstanding, but instead appears to be enforced through a combination of checks in `core` and PoW. Not exactly ideal because this potentially makes things more brittle. Provided this is the intent, I don't have any other recommendations at the moment.

## iamamyth | 2020-12-06T22:14:15+00:00
It might be advisable to at some point explicitly state the design intent here via code comment (which seems to be, perhaps, preventing multiple in-flight requests). From my perspective, disallowing multiple in-flight requests tends to be the correct strategy unless there's a very compelling case for pipelining, as pipelining introduces a lot of subtle complexity relating to resource usage (how many pipelined requests are permitted simultaneously? what state do you need to maintain per-connection? etc). Intuitively, as the core data structure is a list of blocks, a pipeline's utility seems dubious (e.g. requesting successor blocks before validating the current tip could end up wasting tons of cycles trying to compute PoW for bogus successors).

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-06T22:43:00+00:00
Why set it here ? It does not expect a reply here AFAICT.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-06T22:52:20+00:00
Good point about post_notify, I'll do that later though.

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-02T20:28:00+00:00
- Merged at: 2020-12-07T16:04:25+00:00
