---
title: Fee changes from ArticMine
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7819
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-07-29T17:33:00+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-04-18T07:13:40+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2022-04-18T07:13:40+00:00'
merged_at: '2022-04-18T07:13:40+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## UkoeHB | 2021-08-24T18:12:49+00:00
```suggestion
  uint64_t round_money_up(uint64_t amount, unsigned significant_digits)
```

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-24T18:22:36+00:00
Please add comments to this function. Anyone who doesn't already know how this algorithm works is going to take half an hour figuring it out.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-24T18:25:33+00:00
This should be inside the conditional.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-24T18:30:35+00:00
What if the amount is `999` and you need to round to 2 significant digits? Afaict your buffer is big-endian.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-24T18:37:02+00:00
```suggestion
  std::string round_money_up(const std::string &amount_str, unsigned significant_digits)
```

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-24T19:20:22+00:00
Originally I recommended 2 significant digits. Has there been any discussion around this, reasoning for 3 vs 2? @ArticMine 

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-24T19:53:46+00:00
Technically correct for the existing return value of `get_min_block_weight()`, but will become incorrect if that return value changes.

Fix:

```
    lo = mul128(block_reward, DYNAMIC_FEE_REFERENCE_TRANSACTION_WEIGHT, &hi);
    div128_64(hi, lo, median_block_weight, &hi, &lo, NULL, NULL);

    if (version >= HF_VERSION_2021_SCALING)
    {
      // min_fee_per_byte = round_up( 0.95 * block_reward * ref_weight / (fee_median^2) )
      // note: since hardfork HF_VERSION_2021_SCALING, fee_median (a.k.a. median_block_weight) equals effective long term median
      div128_64(hi, lo, median_block_weight, &hi, &lo, NULL, NULL);
      assert(hi == 0);
      lo -= lo / 20;
      lo = cryptonote::round_money(lo, CRYPTONOTE_SCALING_2021_FEE_ROUNDING_PLACES);
    }
    else
    {
      // min_fee_per_byte = 0.2 * block_reward * ref_weight / (min_penalty_free_zone * fee_median)
      div128_64(hi, lo, min_block_weight, &hi, &lo, NULL, NULL);
      assert(hi == 0);
      lo /= 5;
    }

    return lo;
  }
```

I can't extend the Github selection zone to higher lines... annoying.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-24T19:57:35+00:00
The fee update research did not recommend rounding the minimum fee from the node's point of view - only the transaction author. However, I think it is fine to round the node's minimum fee, since it will enforce rounding on nodes to some extent.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-24T23:30:39+00:00
This is only true for `hf_version >= HF_VERSION_2021_SCALING`, otherwise it is `min(Mb, 1.4*Ml)`.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-24T23:49:45+00:00
```suggestion
  uint64_t short_term_constraint;
  if (hf_version >= HF_VERSION_2021_SCALING)
  {
    // long_term_block_weight = block_weight bounded to range [long-term-median/2, long-term-median*2]
    block_weight = std::max<uint64_t>(block_weight, long_term_effective_median_block_weight / 2);
    short_term_constraint = long_term_effective_median_block_weight * 2;
  }
  else
  {
    // long_term_block_weight = block_weight bounded to range [0, long-term-median*1.4]
    short_term_constraint = long_term_effective_median_block_weight + long_term_effective_median_block_weight * 2 / 5;
  }
  uint64_t long_term_block_weight = std::min<uint64_t>(block_weight, short_term_constraint);
```

Implementation is incorrect.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-25T00:04:34+00:00
```suggestion
    if (hf_version >= HF_VERSION_2021_SCALING)
      // effective median = short_term_median bounded to range [long_term_median, 50*long_term_median], but it can't be smaller than the
      // minimum penalty free zone (a.k.a. 'full reward zone')
      effective_median_block_weight = std::min<uint64_t>(std::max<uint64_t>(m_long_term_effective_median_block_weight, short_term_median), CRYPTONOTE_SHORT_TERM_BLOCK_WEIGHT_SURGE_FACTOR * m_long_term_effective_median_block_weight);
    else
      // effective median = short_term_median bounded to range [0, 50*long_term_median], but it can't be smaller than the
      // minimum penalty free zone (a.k.a. 'full reward zone')
      effective_median_block_weight = std::min<uint64_t>(std::max<uint64_t>(CRYPTONOTE_BLOCK_GRANTED_FULL_REWARD_ZONE_V5, short_term_median), CRYPTONOTE_SHORT_TERM_BLOCK_WEIGHT_SURGE_FACTOR * m_long_term_effective_median_block_weight);
```

Adds comments, EDIT: and use `m_long_term_effective_median_block_weight` instead of `long_term_weight` in order to propagate the full reward zone limitation.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-25T00:07:22+00:00
@ArticMine

Is the computation of `M_s` recursive over `M_l`, or is it supposed to be `max(M_l, median(most recent 100 block weights)`? The latter is how it was implemented here, which seems fine to me.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-25T00:10:44+00:00
I don't think these changes belong here. As noted in another comment, it should be in `get_next_long_term_block_weight()`.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-25T18:56:44+00:00
```suggestion
  // we want Mlw = median of max((min(Mbw, 2Ml), Zm), Ml/2)
  // Mbw: block weight for the last 99990 blocks, 0 for the next 10
  // Ml: penalty free zone (dynamic), aka long_term_median, aka median of max((min(Mb, 2Ml), Zm), Ml/2)
  // Zm: 300000 (minimum penalty free zone)
  //
  // So we copy the current rolling median state, add 10 (grace_blocks) zeroes to it, and get back Mlw

  epee::misc_utils::rolling_median_t<uint64_t> rm = m_long_term_block_weights_cache_rolling_median;
  for (size_t i = 0; i < grace_blocks; ++i)
    rm.insert(rm.median() / 2);
```

I think it is supposed to be recursive using the `median of max((min(Mb, 2Ml), Zm), Ml/2)` equation. This change may have no practical effect, but better correct than sorry.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-25T19:04:10+00:00
```suggestion
  // Msw: median over [100 - grace blocks] past + [grace blocks] future blocks
  CHECK_AND_ASSERT_THROW_MSG(grace_blocks <= 100, "Grace blocks invalid In 2021 fee scaling estimate.");
  std::vector<uint64_t> weights;
  get_last_n_blocks_weights(weights, 100 - grace_blocks);
  weights.reserve(100);
  for (size_t i = 0; i < grace_blocks; ++i)
    weights.push_back(0);
  const uint64_t Msw_effective_short_term_median = std::max(epee::misc_utils::median(weights), Mlw_penalty_free_zone_for_wallet);
```

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-25T19:21:21+00:00
What about making these uints `const`? If they are not meant to be mutated in the function, it seems better to document that in the function signature.

The same goes for all the other functions introduced by this PR.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-25T19:23:52+00:00
Also, please add comments to this function to differentiate all the `Fx` fees created. This code is very opaque without background knowledge.

It also isn't clear from reading this function that the fees are _per byte_, as opposed to 'something else but who knows what because the function doesn't tell me'. While the header's forward declaration comment says it is per-byte, it is inconvenient to find that information when browsing the code directly.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-25T19:40:43+00:00
```suggestion
  // fold Br from above, move 4Fm in the max to decrease quantization effect
  //const uint64_t Fh = 4 * Fm * std::max<uint64_t>(1, Mfw / (32 * DYNAMIC_FEE_REFERENCE_TRANSACTION_WEIGHT * Mnw / CRYPTONOTE_BLOCK_GRANTED_FULL_REWARD_ZONE_V5));
  const uint64_t Fh = std::max<uint64_t>(4 * Fm, 4 * Fm * Mfw * CRYPTONOTE_BLOCK_GRANTED_FULL_REWARD_ZONE_V5 / (32 * DYNAMIC_FEE_REFERENCE_TRANSACTION_WEIGHT * Mnw));
```

Simplify the algebra.

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-25T19:49:23+00:00
If this function doesn't have any forward declaration, should it be `static`?

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-25T19:49:58+00:00
If this function doesn't have any forward declaration, should it be `static`?

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-25T19:50:19+00:00
If this function doesn't have any forward declaration, should it be `static`?

## ArticMine | 2021-08-26T03:03:54+00:00
@UkoeHB 

It is supposed to be max(M_l, median(most recent 100 block weights). M_s is not recursive over M_l

## ArticMine | 2021-08-26T03:07:11+00:00
Fee rounding for wallet fees. My recollection is that this was discussed and that the consensus reached was 2 significant digits as per @UkoeHB 's recommendation. I fully support this consensus of 2 significant figures. Mea culpa I should have updated the specification to reflect this.

## ArticMine | 2021-08-26T03:15:12+00:00
Fee rounding for the minimum node relay fee: This was not part of the specification. This being said I see applying fee rounding to the minimum node relay fee as a significant improvement on the specification. If fee rounding is applied to the minimum node relay fee, the fee needs to rounded down as opposed to up, and for consistency to the same number of significant figures as the wallet fees namely 2. The principle here is a transaction not fail the minimum node relay fee solely on account of fee rounding. 

I support adding fee rounding down to 2 significant figures to the minimum node relay fee. 

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-26T12:30:39+00:00
@ArticMine Why does the node relay fee need to be rounded down? I can't think of a scenario where a tx would fail when the node rounds up vs if the node doesn't round at all.

## ArticMine | 2021-08-26T20:35:45+00:00
@UkoeHB 

This is a very valid point. If the rounding is the same in both cases then the order of the wallet fee being greater than or equal to the minimum node relay fee is preserved. The argument for rounding up the wallet fees was the case of no rounding in the minimum node relay fee. Rounding also the minimum node relay fee  provides for a very valid argument to use normal rounding (5 and greater rounded up below 5 rounded down), to two significant figures, for both the wallet fees and the minimum node relay fee. This I believe will be the simplest solution.

One thing to keep in mind here is that wallet fees are likely to be coded by many different third parties, so making this as simple as possible is desirable. For this reason I would advise against rounding the minimum node relay fee up. I do agree that rounding the minimum node relay fee down is overkill. 

## UkoeHB | 2021-08-27T14:47:17+00:00
How about we just remove fee rounding from this function and call that good enough?

## ArticMine | 2021-08-27T14:58:01+00:00
I have no problem with removing fee rounding from this function.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-15T18:19:11+00:00
What are you asking here ? The function rounds amounts, whatever their value. Your case should round to 1000 I think. I'll check it does.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-15T18:36:47+00:00
At first glance, a get_next_... function should not modify a member var. Is it actually incorrect if it's here ? 

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-15T18:38:38+00:00
The intent here is to have a fee level that's known to be good for grace_blocks blocks, and the worst case is 0 block size. So I think this is right.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-15T19:04:44+00:00
Removing "lo /= median_block_weight;" is a typo, right ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-15T19:12:11+00:00
And the other change seems wrong, since it causes the tests to fail (by much more than just the rounding change from 3 to 2 places) - unless the values from the PDF test cases were wrong in the first place.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-15T19:25:06+00:00
The rounding was borked when the carry reached the top, fixed now. I assume that's what you meant (though I don't understand the significance of the endianness comment).

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-15T19:36:16+00:00
That one is too close to integer overflow for comfort. It also doesn't simplify really, it just reorders.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-15T19:38:18+00:00
It is, it's in an anonymous namespace.

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-15T22:42:44+00:00
In your code,

```
div128_64(hi, lo, min_block_weight, &hi, &lo, NULL, NULL);
```

Is canceled out by 

```
lo *= CRYPTONOTE_BLOCK_GRANTED_FULL_REWARD_ZONE_V5;
```

Why cancel it at all? My suggestion is to skip these calculations because they are zero sum. I don't know why the tests would fail.

> Removing "lo /= median_block_weight;" is a typo, right ?

It is replaced with this, which should be equivalent.

```
div128_64(hi, lo, median_block_weight, &hi, &lo, NULL, NULL);
```

Did you add `lo /= median_block_weight;` back in? That would cause the tests to fail.

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-15T22:53:46+00:00
> the worst case is 0 block size

```
max(min(0, 2Ml), Zm, Ml/2) = max(Zm, Ml/2)
```

The `max()` calculation is in the next line (3790). A fee level that is good for grace_blocks blocks therefore should use recursive over `Ml/2` like in my suggestion.

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-15T23:07:25+00:00
I did not recommend modifying a member var in `get_next_long_term_block_weight()`. I recommended moving this functionality into `get_next_long_term_block_weight()`, which is used to set `long_term_median` in line 4450 referenced by this comment, which is used to set `m_long_term_effective_median_block_weight` in line 4453 referenced by this comment.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-16T09:41:32+00:00
nvm, I had missed another change in the block. Anyway, I've done this except the removal of these two "canceling" lines since it's not obvious they cancel and it's not like an extra div here really slows it down.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-16T09:42:38+00:00
I do not understand that, and since it works, you can change it later if you think it should be.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-16T09:46:05+00:00
If you mean moving the entire calc there, IIRC it's called a lot and would noticeably slow down, so I'm leaving it here.

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-16T12:18:28+00:00
> I've done this except the removal of these two "canceling" lines since it's not obvious they cancel and it's not like an extra div here really slows it down.

I am confused by this reply. Where in the fee doc does it specify making these computations (the ones that cancel each other)?

There will be a behavior change if the return value of `get_min_block_weight()` changes, which is not intended by the fee doc.

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-16T12:26:57+00:00
Sorry, what? A call to `std::max<uint64_t>()` will "noticeably slow [it] down"?


## UkoeHB | 2021-09-16T13:35:33+00:00
```suggestion

    m_long_term_effective_median_block_weight = std::max<uint64_t>(CRYPTONOTE_BLOCK_GRANTED_FULL_REWARD_ZONE_V5, long_term_median);

```

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-16T21:02:05+00:00
The long term median is recursive over `max((min(Mb, 2Ml), Zm), Ml/2)`. If your block weight is `Mb = 0`, then it simplifies to recursive over `max(Zm, Ml/2)` (for the blocks where `Mb = 0`). It is incorrect to push back 0s (note that it is ok to push back 0s in the short term median, which is not computed recursively).

It is not a matter of what I think it 'should' be.

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-17T15:46:39+00:00
After your update to `get_next_long_term_block_weight()` these lines don't do anything any more.

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-17T15:52:07+00:00
```suggestion
    if (version >= HF_VERSION_2021_SCALING)
    {
      // min_fee_per_byte = round_up( 0.95 * block_reward * ref_weight / (fee_median^2) )
      // note: since hardfork HF_VERSION_2021_SCALING, fee_median (a.k.a. median_block_weight) equals effective long term median
      div128_64(hi, lo, median_block_weight, &hi, &lo, NULL, NULL);
      assert(hi == 0);
      lo -= lo / 20;
      return lo;
    }
```

I am confused why you want these two lines in this function. Am I missing something in the fee doc?

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-17T16:35:30+00:00
Are they not in the doc ? I assume they are if I ended up with that code. I'll double check later and remove if I don't find them and it still works with them out.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-17T19:37:56+00:00
I looked and I cannot see that. I have no idea why I put those in. Removed. I'll push once tests have run.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-18T02:18:44+00:00
I'm unconvinced and it looks like playing on words in that last comment. I'll keep it as is.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-20T11:42:45+00:00
The fee doc does not specify those.

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-20T13:13:29+00:00
@ArticMine @vtnerd any thoughts on this? It is the last point before I can accept this PR.

## ArticMine | 2021-09-22T16:54:20+00:00
I believe that the grace blocks should be 0 as @moneromooo-monero is proposing. This is for clarity, robustness and simplicity of the code. The principle here is that the grace blocks are a worst case scenario. One then proceeds to calculate the medians. 

Edit: I see @UkoeHB 's point that it is incorrect to push back 0 in the recursive calculation. The solution I see is to calculate the long term median recursively, replace the earliest 10 blocks with 0 grace blocks and then recalculate the wallet fee long term median that is used once. This prevents the grace blocks for being included in the recursive calculation. 

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-22T19:15:11+00:00
@ArticMine This function copies the ledger's rolling long term median variable, then inserts 0 at the end for `num_graceblocks`. It doesn't affect consensus, if that was your concern. I may be misunderstanding your proposal though.

I have been arguing this function should push back `max((min(Mb, 2Ml), Zm), Ml/2)` with `Mb = 0` for `num_graceblocks`.

## ArticMine | 2021-09-22T22:28:54+00:00
> This function copies the ledger's rolling long term median variable, then inserts 0 at the end for num_graceblocks. It doesn't affect consensus, if that was your concern. I may be misunderstanding your proposal though.

That is my understanding also. What I am missing is why we have recursion after inserting the 0 at the end for num_graceblocks. For the next block we repeat the process starting again with the rolling long term median variable.

Edit 1: I understand what @UkoeHB is proposing: The worst scenario is max(Zm, Ml/2) calculated recursively for the next 10 blocks, with Mb=0. Still if we replace this with 0 or even Zm I do not see how this would change the wallet fee end result since we would be replacing the lowest values for only 10 blocks in the median calculation with even lower values. This should work even in a recursive calculation. Still one can argue that using max(Zm, Ml/2) is more accurate. 

As far as I can see this will produce the same result. 

Edit 2: My understanding is that none of the wallet fee calculations are consensus.

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-22T22:45:05+00:00
> What I am missing is why we have recursion after inserting the 0 at the end for num_graceblocks.

I am a bit confused by this sentence. In the PR's code, there is no recursion in this spot (right now). So, `0` is pushed back into the vector used to find the long term median, then `0` is pushed back for the next block.

In the consensus code, `m_long_term_block_weights_cache_rolling_median` is built recursively: each block weight pushed back goes through `max((min(Mb, 2Ml), Zm), Ml/2)` first.

## ArticMine | 2021-09-22T23:56:38+00:00
Yes to clarify. There is no recursion in the PR code for the wallet fees using 0, but if I understand this correctly if we use max(Zm, Ml/2) instead we would also have to use recursion for 10 blocks each time to calculate the wallet fee median from the consensus long term median.

Edit 1: The way the code is proposed Ml/2 does not change over the 10 grace blocks so it could be higher than if recursion is applied.

Edit 2: I am going to recommend we stay with 0 since the proposed change does not include recursion for the 10 grace blocks. 

Edit 3: I would not have a problem with changing to the recursive version (include recursion for the 10 grace blocks) of max(Zm, Ml/2). As @moneromooo-monero has pointed out this could be done at a later time.

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-26T12:34:27+00:00
Ok since @ArticMine thinks this is fine, I will accept it.

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-26T16:41:19+00:00
Btw there is a line in this file: "`// New constants are intended to go here`". Are these new constants supposed to go there?

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-26T17:35:49+00:00
```suggestion
// INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
// STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF
// THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

////
// References:
// - https://github.com/ArticMine/Monero-Documents/blob/master/MoneroScaling2021.pdf
// - https://github.com/monero-project/research-lab/issues/70
///

#define IN_UNIT_TESTS

#include "gtest/gtest.h"
```

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-09-26T17:50:49+00:00
Someone clearly thought so :) AFAICT this is an attempt at having new constants be constants (as opposed to macros) in namespaces.  I prefer adding things in the groups where they belong. Others may add elsewhere.

## UkoeHB | 2021-09-26T18:06:13+00:00
I see

## j-berman | 2022-02-03T23:58:27+00:00
`short_term_constraint` isn't updated a few lines up for the change from 1.4->1.7 (which feeds into `m_long_term_effective_median_block_weight` here)

@ArticMine I hope I get some cred for my position in the other thread for spotting this :)

## j-berman | 2022-02-03T23:58:34+00:00
I'm a bit confused in this function -- it looks like it's returning `min(max(Mb, max(Zm, Ml)/1.7), max(Zm, Ml)*1.7)`

But the spec is `max(min(Mb , 1.7Ml), Zm, Ml/1.7)`

I'm not seeing any issues with this because when the rolling long term median gets set, it's set based on the max of Zm and whatever value is returned here, but maybe I'm missing something.. can't tell if this is intended or not

## j-berman | 2022-02-04T00:06:05+00:00
Unused, and doesn't seem like it matters but I can't tell for certain

## j-berman | 2022-02-04T00:07:04+00:00
missing the `assert(hi == 0)` from above?

## j-berman | 2022-02-04T00:07:14+00:00
15?

## j-berman | 2022-02-04T00:19:41+00:00
also surprised the compiler doesn't catch returning a value on a function declared void

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-02-08T11:35:39+00:00
That call is also void.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-02-08T12:02:15+00:00
AFAICT it's returning min(Mb, 1.7 x) with x being max(long term median, 300000). and seems to be assuming that median(max(x,y)) == max(median(x),y), which I think is true (a test program I've just made seems to corroborate). So I'm not sure why you think this functoin should return something else. Do you disagree with how it's used maybe ?

## j-berman | 2022-02-10T08:45:36+00:00
No I think it's ok given how it's used and that this is ok. Was just a little confused by it since it seemed a little different and wanted to double check

## j-berman | 2022-02-10T08:54:00+00:00
sorry I hate to do this but this is also unused. was just going to make a new PR for this, but figure makes sense to double check this is safe by you to remove now. Everything looks good to me

## j-berman | 2022-02-11T07:22:25+00:00
Think this general logic (starting from the comment) belongs inside `if (use_2021_scaling)`, otherwise this causes a discrepancy with current v17.3.0 clients until the hard fork (`get_fee_multiplier(priority)` gets called with a value of `priority` 1 less than it should be called with down in the else)

## j-berman | 2022-02-11T07:25:15+00:00
Suggestion:

```
m_dynamic_base_fee_estimate_vector = !resp_t.fees.empty() ? std::move(resp_t.fees) : std::vector<uint64_t>{m_dynamic_base_fee_estimate};
```

Fixes a seg fault when wallet tries to construct a transaction before the fork (tries to access `fees[0]` on an empty vector in `get_dynamic_base_fee_estimate` below)

## j-berman | 2022-02-11T07:51:44+00:00
I can't see why yet but this is causing a test to fail. Working through it

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-02-11T18:41:41+00:00
Probably because it's not on v15 yet. You need to add that fork to the table.

## j-berman | 2022-02-11T19:37:13+00:00
Yep, adding to the end of the mainnet table does the trick. Added it in the wrong way and was getting a weird result

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2021-07-29T17:33:00+00:00
- Merged at: 2022-04-18T07:13:40+00:00
