---
title: Provide last error from http client to UI
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7057
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-12-03T00:31:36+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-03-14T17:22:20+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This stores the last `std::error_code` while doing HTTP client I/O to make it available to UIs. With Boost 1.65+ this provides more useful messages with the CLI wallet, and hopefully GUI wallet too. The primary purpose is for an (shortly) upcoming DANE/TLSA patch that uses DNSSEC for the "autodetect" SSL mode with wallets. I broke this into its own patch because its useful even if the DANE/TLSA patch is rejected or reverted.



# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2020-12-03T00:32:46+00:00
@woodser a new method was added to the abtract http interface. The default behavior is to return a generic `not_connected` code when not connected, but can be extended to return more useful messages.

## vtnerd | 2020-12-03T00:35:06+00:00
@xiphon @selsta 

This patch stores additional information in the wallet API error message. Sometimes the message from OpenSSL in particular is a little funky, but the `error_code` typically provides more information as to why the `check_connection` attempt failed. Is there a better place for this?

## woodser | 2020-12-05T14:28:03+00:00
What would be returned when connected and there is no error?

Could the error not be thrown from the other methods for standard exception handling?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-05T17:41:42+00:00
Why ! ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-05T17:43:34+00:00
That seems to do a lot more than exposing last error.

## vtnerd | 2020-12-06T00:52:20+00:00
> What would be returned when connected and there is no error?

A default constructed empty `error_code` indicating no failure.

> Could the error not be thrown from the other methods for standard exception handling?

From where exactly? The `connect` function? The helper `invoke` functions?

The `connect` method uses `bool` for status and catches all exceptions, the control flow for every call site would have to be changed and inspected. `invoke` uses bool too, but doesn't try to catch exceptions.

## vtnerd | 2020-12-06T01:40:56+00:00
`handshake` returns a `boost::system::error_code` which has inverted `bool` behavior unfortunately. Wrapping it in an `expect<void>` gives expected `bool` conversion, but that class would have to be moved to the `epee` playground. I could do `bool`+out parameter for `error_code` here ?

## vtnerd | 2020-12-06T01:42:16+00:00
Originally this changed a bunch of lines for DANE/TLSA. This can be rolled back somewhat for this more limited PR, but there are still a number of changes for `boost::system::error_code` return from `ssl_options_t::handshake`.

There was some redundant checks that got removed, and it seemed like an opportunity to just move a chunk of code to the cpp. The amount moved wasn't huge in the end.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-06T01:42:20+00:00
No, as long as it's intended it's fine.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-06T14:36:25+00:00
Maybe it hasn't changed, but it makes reviewing a lot more annoying since manually reading two bits of source to see they're indeed the same is a pita. But hey, they're not *that* large I guess,

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-06T23:22:11+00:00
Do you need to clear m_stream_error here, if not used only by connect ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-06T23:27:08+00:00
That is *really* confusing. Above, you inverted the return value check when swithing from bool to expect. Here and below, not.

## vtnerd | 2024-02-08T00:43:40+00:00
I reverted the move to the cpp, to make it easier to read.

## vtnerd | 2024-02-08T00:44:22+00:00
No longer using `expect<void>`, everything is `boost::system::error_code` with the expected returns.

## vtnerd | 2024-02-08T00:50:04+00:00
I do not believe `m_stream_error` needs to be reset here. `try_connect` is called from `connect` which always resets the value based on the results from `try_connect`.

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-08T18:15:39+00:00
Shouldn't this be `!bool()` since error code 0 means success?

## vtnerd | 2024-02-10T14:47:41+00:00
Good catch. Initially this returned `expect<void>`, but decided to keep things consistent with `error_code`.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2020-12-03T00:31:36+00:00
