---
title: Lightwallet support + mobile redesign (no merge)
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/pull/780
author: Jaqueeee
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-06-23T21:14:04+00:00'
updated_at: '2017-10-27T16:16:49+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2017-10-27T16:16:49+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
requires #2109

- Lightwallet support (mymonero/openmonero)
- reworked layout for smaller screens.
- Better remote node integration. Option to use remote node while syncing local node
- Restore/export wallet with QR code
- Moved seed&Keys to own tab. 
- other small changes and improvements

Some cleanup and optimisations is needed before this can be merged. PR'ing to get feedback from testers. 

**Experimental Android build**
https://www.dropbox.com/s/cv3ey6h93xlq4z9/monero-wallet-gui.apk?dl=0
Tested on Xiaomi Redmi 4. My goal is to make the interface as dynamic as possible. Would love to get feedback on how it looks on other screens. 
**NOTE:** this is not an official build. (Don't trust it)
If you want to build yourself I recommend these instructions from @MoroccanMalinois 
https://github.com/MoroccanMalinois/monero-core/tree/android_dockerfile/android

**Known issues**
- ~~Some screens are still little too wide for mobile, but all components should be reachable.~~
- LightWallet server is hadcoded to mymonero currently. If you wan't to use your own openmonero server you have to alter the code yourself. https://github.com/monero-project/monero-core/compare/master...Jaqueeee:openmonero?expand=1#diff-3d442cd229041f412bc48acdcee456bcR975
- MyMonero will stop syncing the wallet after some time. You have to login with your seed on mymonero.com to trigger the wallet sync if it lags behind. 
- Connecting to remote nodes doesn't work

Android
- ~~Selections handles can get stuck on screen after selecting text~~
- Translations doesn't work yet
- ~Crash when using backbutton~

IOS
- QR-code scanner not implemented yet

**Edit**: new APK link


# Discussion History
## MoroccanMalinois | 2017-06-25T02:08:55+00:00
always true ? 

# Action History
- Created by: Jaqueeee | 2017-06-23T21:14:04+00:00
- Closed at: 2017-10-27T16:16:49+00:00
