---
title: Change p2p connection map from raw pointers to weak_ptrs
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7345
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels:
- enhancement
- in progress
- networking
created_at: '2021-01-23T05:36:30+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-08-20T01:51:19+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This converts the raw pointers p2p connection map to `std::weak_ptr` usage. This helps with code clarity (clear ownership behavior), and reduces the risk of an omitted `finish_outer_call` which would cause a memory leak. There are a slight performance increases in several cases, except for a few lesser used functions. There's a decent amount of changes, particularly in the tests, to re-arrange code so that the connection map can have a proper `weak_ptr` without additional allocations. 

After #7308 , `foreach` and `for_connection` are no longer faster with raw pointers - this PR is actually faster (one less allocation, two less lock acquires, and one less atomic CAS per connection). `invoke`, `invoke_async`, and `notify` all have two less lock acquires and one less atomic CAS, and the last two have one less allocation. `del_functions`, `cancel` and `reset_timer` are slower due to additional atomic operations. Only `reset_timer` is called with regularity.

This was tested with clang thread-sanitizer and address-sanitizer with a daemon running on testnet.

In the future, block/tx relaying performance can be bumped marginally by allowing `std::weak_ptr` to be used outside of the p2p class instead of `boost::uuids::uuid`. This removes the second lock and lookup - the benefit primarily being less thread-stalls.

Also, the `foreach_connection` and `for_connection` calls with this patch or #7308 , can invoke the callback after releasing the connections lock. The calls into this function will have to be inspected for possible race conditions, because current usage may be relying on lock behavior (in fact, they definitely are). The benefit is less thread blocking since the callback performance won't impact wait-time for another thread that needs to inspect the connections list.

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2021-01-23T18:50:44+00:00
Seems you could reduce delta noise in this function and also help the compiler with:
```
auto context = get_context() = t_connection_context{};
```

## vtnerd | 2021-01-28T03:10:17+00:00
This hides a member variable from a derived class, but it does limit the changes. Done.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2021-01-23T05:36:30+00:00
