---
title: 'daemon: add command line arg to set socks proxy'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7616
author: tobtoht
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-03-18T23:34:25+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-09-09T19:10:08+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2021-09-09T19:10:08+00:00'
merged_at: '2021-09-09T19:10:08+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Patch originally provided by wfaressuissia[m] in #monero-dev, with minor changes.

Tails does not transparently torify traffic, as such torsocks must be used in absence of application-level configuration. This introduces various issues, such as long timeouts (See: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/6708#issuecomment-658899258) and problems closing monerod because torsocks likes to eat sigints. This patch eliminates the need for torsocks by introducing a command line argument for setting the socks proxy. This will also allow the GUI to spawn monerod without using torsocks to fix simple and bootstrap mode on Tails.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2021-08-10T04:02:06+00:00
For consistency, I'd put this in the initializer list.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-10T04:11:10+00:00
You can set a domain through socks, so that the remote side does the lookup for the DNS seed nodes. This would require some more refactoring of the code though.

Could you add a comment about this here?

## vtnerd | 2021-08-10T04:12:36+00:00
Same thing here with the inconsistency.

## vtnerd | 2021-08-10T04:14:55+00:00
Should it be an error if someone sets the `proxy_allow_dns_leaks = false` flag without setting the other flag? It works as-is, but the error reporting helps the user without pointless configurations.

## tobtoht | 2021-08-20T19:28:31+00:00
Added a warning message above (I assume only showing a message is sufficient, since the behavior is unaffected). Let me know if there is a better place to put this, though.

# Action History
- Created by: tobtoht | 2021-03-18T23:34:25+00:00
- Merged at: 2021-09-09T19:10:08+00:00
