---
title: 'CMake: Unity Builds; core_tests as an example'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7217
author: mj-xmr
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-12-28T18:43:24+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-06-03T13:57:37+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
# UPDATE
The script, that I prepared for objective [compilation time](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/6956) analysis, has never being taken for an absolute source of information for any reviewers of my compilation time reduction branches. It does indeed use 3rd party software by @aras-p to measure the compilation time, whom [I provided a patch myself](https://github.com/aras-p/ClangBuildAnalyzer/pull/42). By definition the _compilation time_ consists of parsing, code generation and optimizations, but this excludes linking time, as on each developer's machine this can be influenced differently, with I/O bottlenecks being the most prominent example. Even if two runs of pre- and post-branch are compared using the same conditions, comparing the build time of each of them without being able to subtract the major interference, like I/O, leads to underestimation of the percentual change of the compilation time itself. 

For example, the parsing part of the compilation time only (simplified but still close to real world measurements done before), compared to parsing part plus linking (I/O interference) of exactly the same time of 1500 s, that a developer would typically had to add to the total time, by simply running `time make`, can be seen in the below table: 

measurement of |  master | this branch | reduction
 --- | ---  | --- | ---
  Parsing (frontend) |         1500.0 s |  1200.0 s | -20.00%
  Parsing (frontend) + I/O |         3000.0 s |         2700.0 s | -10.00%

Other developers, who care about quick recompilations, in order to be able to experience quick incremental changes for using for example the Test Driven Development methodology, that [I documented in Monero's docs folder](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/docs/COMPILING_DEBUGGING_TESTING.md#test-driven-development-tdd---shared-libraries-for-release-builds), might be much more careful and and use dynamic linking, as well as using the RAM Disk to read the code from and to build the binaries on. This reduces the I/O interference by solid 80% on my machine, give or take.

As you can probably conclude, even though we _talk_ about _compilation time_, and even repeating seemingly the same experiment, we measure different things, and even though we use the same _unit_ of percentage, we achieve completely different results.

The distrust towards the 3rd party software, that I introduced and integrated and was recommending everybody for doing the tests lead to repeatedly underestimating my measurements and quite a backslash by many community members. It wasn't just one person, that I could block / ban / ignore. [Here's a link that serves as the best example](https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge_requests/287#note_15379), as well as an [archived screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/63722585/171801103-8481c0f0-a010-4673-8793-de702cd28d3c.png). I'll spare you the rest of the story and for how long I had to recover from all these attacks.

This created a huge gap, that I had to fill with a [build time testing framework](https://github.com/mj-xmr/monero-patches/blob/master/src/monero-test-build-time.sh), that at the same time:
- is almost as simple as `time make`
- uses no 3rd party software that cannot be trusted just like that
- even though it wouldn't *eliminate* all other interferences listed in the [script's documentation](https://github.com/mj-xmr/monero-patches/blob/master/src/monero-test-build-time.sh#L6), it would reduce them by the mentioned 80%, giving a good approximation (yet still underestimation) of what can be achieved, if my branches get merged

The results of the script can still be manipulated by both me and other users, even if done unintentionally by for example using a damaged hard drive and having too low RAM for the RAMDisk to handle this test, ultimately having to swap a lot of memory to the damaged hard drive. In order to address this issue, I have additionally created an independent wrapper of the script, in this case a [GitHub job as a form of patch](https://github.com/mj-xmr/monero-patches/blob/master/src/workflow-build-time-test.patch), that is meant to be ran on GitHub's servers, thus letting nobody manipulate / overestimate / underestimate the results. As a form of GitHub action, it is now possible to attach it to all my other similar branches, where I couldn't prove the legitimacy of my measurements convincingly enough.

# Results (compilation time)
The result of the script's run can be independently verified in [this job](https://github.com/mj-xmr/monero-mj/runs/6719989492?check_suite_focus=true). They not only confirm my local results, but show that [my own ones](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/files/8830338/build-logs-unity.txt) are actually **underestimated**.

measurement of |  master | this branch | reduction
 --- | ---  | --- | ---
complete build |         44.43 m |  41.35 m | -6.93%
the most affected target |         5.3 m |   2.833 m | -46.55%

# Interpretation of the results
As far as the `complete build` represents the traditional `time make` command with its I/O interference reduced by ~80%, and results in 7% measured reduction of the total compilation time, the `the most affected target` is a bit harder to understand: Normally I'd personally be satisfied only with the first measurement, but I'm always between the rock and a hard place:
- large PRs which bring huge gains are never being reviewed, because you'll admit, reviewing is a very tough work
- perfectly reviewable small PRs are so small, that they deliver an impact so small, that the integrator considers not to merge them, even though they're reviewed

This forces me to zoom into the module that was most affected by the change and measure it individually. I'm personally happy with the result, that I was able to achieve here. Another metric, that I was forced to contrive [in this neat discussion](https://repo.getmonero.org/monero-project/ccs-proposals/-/merge_requests/287#note_15381), measures the (positive) impact **relative to the number of changed lines**. I hoped it would suffice, but it clearly didn't, which forced me to spend a lot of time on the verification tool.

# Results (memory requirements)
Comparing the latest available measurements of RAM consumption for compilation on master, [published here](http://cryptog.hopto.org/monero/health/) bring us to the following values:

measurement of |  master | this branch | reduction
 --- | ---  | --- | ---
average RAM consumption |         579 (MB) |  563 (MB) | -2.76%
4 largest files RAM consumption  |        2581 (MB) |   2687 (MB) | 4.11%

The increase of the memory usage of the largest 4 files shouldn't be surprising for anybody, as the entire `core_tests` target has been consolidated into just 3 very large files, which on the other hand decreased the **cumulative** average RAM used. When you look closer at the stats, you'll notice, that actually only single of the 3 generated unities made it into this statistic, beating even the cost of compilation of `wallet2`! 

```
Source files sorted by RAM used (in MB) for compilation:

[##########] 100% 3072.4 	build/mem-usage/tests/core_tests/CMakeFiles/core_tests.dir/Unity/unity_0_cxx.cxx	
[#########-] 92%  2853.0 	src/wallet/wallet2.cpp	
[#######---] 78%  2414.1 	src/rpc/core_rpc_server.cpp	
[#######---] 78%  2409.6 	tests/unit_tests/node_server.cpp
[#######---] 77%  2390.8 	src/wallet/wallet_rpc_server.cpp
```

The memory usage reports are given below:

- [mem-usage-tests-unity.txt](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/files/8830674/mem-usage-tests-unity.txt)
- [mem-usage-tests-master.txt](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/files/8830677/mem-usage-tests-master.txt)


# Costs (for accounting)
Please bear in mind, that even though I knew I was doing everything right from the start (after all I'm very experienced in this), the time costs of the actual original work (setting up Unity Build) were minuscule, compared to the work related to having to prepare the mentioned testing framework, its (hopefully) indisputable methodology, even though I already prepared [such a tool](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/utils/health/clang-build-time-analyzer-run.sh) for this project, which, by the way, wraps much more a professional tool than I could write in a reasonable time (maybe around 1 year).


# Original text
Use monero_target_unity to enable [unity build](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unity_build) for a given target. A good candidate for a unity build is a target with many source files, where some clusters of the files include the same headers. CMake automatically clusters these files to provide an optimal solution. In practice, each such cluster becomes a new temporary .cpp file, with the original files concatenated into the one mentioned cpp file. The second best candidate was unit_tests, that required a little bit of extra work.

core_tests build 57% faster, measured on a single core (from 5.2 down to 2.2 minutes on my machine).
~~unit_tests build 36% faster (from 8.5 down to 5.4 minutes on my machine).~~ <- Currently excluded from this branch.

Pros: 
- the build chunks are perfectly parallelizable
- works with icecream and ccache.
- helps detecting (via compilation errors) ugliness in code like global variables with the same name (even static or in anonymous namespaces) or the same inclusion guards for different classes

Cons: 
- a rebuild of the whole, possibly large chunk of the target is required if just one source file is changed. Don't use if for incremental builds (like just lexing the file, you're working on).

## Old stats
Work time: 4.5h

 master | this branch | reduction
 --- | ---  | --- 
Compilation (893 times): | Compilation (741 times): | -17.02%
  Parsing (frontend):         1550.8 s | Parsing (frontend):         1213.8 s | -21.73%
  Codegen & opts (backend):   1667.9 s | Codegen & opts (backend):   1626.7 s | -2.47%


# Discussion History
## mj-xmr | 2020-12-28T19:40:27+00:00
I wanted to test if the produced binaries deliver good results on your CI. Therefore ON by default for now.

## mj-xmr | 2020-12-28T21:41:04+00:00
All the targets, which build core-tests, have succeeded in building the target via unity build. I'll leave this until you review (search for "unity" in actions/cli) and decide if we should maybe keep in ON by default.

# Action History
- Created by: mj-xmr | 2020-12-28T18:43:24+00:00
