---
title: RPC and ZeroMQ APIs to support p2pool
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7891
author: SChernykh
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-08-26T09:10:16+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-05-14T15:16:06+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2021-09-24T03:13:24+00:00'
merged_at: '2021-09-24T03:13:24+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Adds the following:

- "get_miner_data" to RPC API
- "json-full-miner_data" to ZeroMQ subscriber contexts

Both provide the necessary data to create a custom block template. They are used by p2pool.

Data provided:

- major fork version
- current height
- previous block id
- RandomX seed hash
- network difficulty
- median block weight
- coins mined by the network so far
- mineable mempool transactions

# Discussion History
## cirocosta | 2021-08-26T12:20:50+00:00
is there a particular reason for not adhering to the same format as the other two events?

from [ZMQ.md](./docs/ZMQ.md)

```
 * Formats:
   * `json`
 * Contexts:
   * `full` - the entire block or transaction is transmitted (the hash can be
     computed remotely).
   * `minimal` - the bare minimum for a remote client to react to an event is
     sent.
 * Events:
   * `chain_main` - changes to the primary/main blockchain.
   * `txpool_add` - new _publicly visible_ transactions in the mempool.
     Includes previously unseen transactions in a block but _not_ the
     `miner_tx`. Does not "re-publish" after a reorg. Includes `do_not_relay`
     transactions.
```

it'd be odd to have miner-data not following the same concept of minimal & full contexts (or, am I missing something?)

## cirocosta | 2021-08-26T12:22:03+00:00
on that note, it'd be great to include in this PR an update to ZMQ.md 😁  

## cirocosta | 2021-08-26T12:25:25+00:00
do you think there'd be room for splitting this branch into a separate function? 

this function it's already super long and as this is essentially just a notification that's supposedly not the main codepath most daemons out there would be going through, might be worth separating into its own method which could perhaps be reused in some form under `Blockchain::handle_block_to_main_chain`. 

wdyt?

## SChernykh | 2021-08-26T12:26:11+00:00
Miner data can only be full to be useful. If something is removed, it will be impossible to create a block template from it.

## SChernykh | 2021-08-26T12:28:30+00:00
I'll change the name to fit this naming scheme

## SChernykh | 2021-08-26T12:36:49+00:00
This code is actually in two places in blockchain.cpp, it makes sense to move it to a separate function

## hyc | 2021-08-27T18:35:52+00:00
Don't forget to bump CORE_RPC_VERSION_MINOR in this file before final merge.

## hyc | 2021-08-27T18:39:06+00:00
I think you might have to also bump DAEMON_RPC_VERSION_ZMQ_MINOR in daemon_rpc_version.h but not sure.

## vtnerd | 2021-09-07T20:24:28+00:00
The `&` was intentionally omitted as the type is cheap to copy, and adding the `&` isn't really related to this patch.

## vtnerd | 2021-09-07T20:45:59+00:00
I think this should be put somewhere in a header (and the `&` removed for the `std::vector`). That way all of the functions in the chain take this type, and `send_miner_notification` fills out the struct. The only benefit is cleaning up the function signatures.

## vtnerd | 2021-09-07T21:22:16+00:00
Would be nice if some of these values could be retrieved lazily only when there is a sub to the corresponding endpoint. But this notification is infrequent, so I guess not worth butchering the interface -

Could you add a comment here about lazily retrieving though? Just to document somewhere that the data (usually) gets dropped on the floor. The notifier signature could be updated to `boost::optional<miner_data>(const crypto::hash&, std::uint64_t /* already_generated_coins */, blockchain&, const miner_data*)`, which is a bit more efficient but admittedly funky.

Basically the first notifier that has a subscriber retrieves the data and returns it for the next one, etc.

## vtnerd | 2021-09-07T21:26:08+00:00
If the `false` on line 941 is changed to `true` then this call is unnecessary because `bd` is a pointer to the transaction blob. This should be a lot more efficient.

## vtnerd | 2021-09-07T21:31:59+00:00
Is the only difference between the types a `std::string` to be compliant with the the epee JSON output engine? That is a glaring mistake in the internal epee DOM (not differentiating between strings and bytes).

## vtnerd | 2021-09-07T21:34:25+00:00
I don't see a corresponding change to ZMQ-RPC. Add in a later patch, or ? Because I think this requires pool implementations to use both interfaces (at least for the initialization).

## SChernykh | 2021-09-08T09:06:53+00:00
The `&` was intentionally added back as passing by reference is still cheaper than copying 24 bytes, also to make all `toJsonValue` functions in zmq_pub.cpp follow the same standard.

P.S. I don't want someone to copy-paste a version without `&` to make another `toJsonValue` with a heavy struct without thinking twice.

## SChernykh | 2021-09-08T09:08:08+00:00
I don't see why when other structs are right next to it. Removing `&` will make a copy of the vector which is bad for performance. It is currently created in one place and never copied, only the reference is passed around. This vector can contain hundreds of transactions.

## SChernykh | 2021-09-08T09:11:13+00:00
JSON outputs binary data here for entry.id if I don't convert to string explicitly.

## SChernykh | 2021-09-08T09:12:10+00:00
ZMQ-RPC doesn't have half of needed APIs - not even get_block_template/submit_block, so pool implementations are forced to use regular RPC.

## SChernykh | 2021-09-08T09:18:31+00:00
`m_miner_notifiers` is not empty only when there is `--zmq-pub` in monerod command line, so it early outs in 99% cases. The remaining monerod setups that do use `--zmq-pub` most likely will use it for p2pool, so they will use this data. Refactoring it makes sense later when there are more uses for ZMQ.

## vtnerd | 2021-09-08T14:19:45+00:00
Mining is not the only use case for pub/sub, so there will be cases where all of this information is collected only to be dropped. The other endpoints are forwarding data that is already available.

## vtnerd | 2021-09-08T14:21:52+00:00
The `&` would not be a copy because the entire `struct` would be passed by reference. And it would cleanup the long parameter list.

## vtnerd | 2021-09-08T14:23:53+00:00
Seems like something to add in another PR then.

## SChernykh | 2021-09-08T14:32:29+00:00
Is there an easy way to detect if anyone is connected to zmq-pub port and subscribed to `json-full-miner_data`? I tried to do something like this initially, but I couldn't find a way to detect connected subscribers reliably. IIRC ZMQ somehow cached it internally and `add_subscriptions` was only called once even when I connected two subscribers, or something like that.

## vtnerd | 2021-09-08T21:10:12+00:00
I re-checked this - the ASM generated should be the same currently, so might as well make the change.

If the `struct` were just 2 fields, then each field could be passed in a register. The only caller doesn't have a `minimal_chain` object in working memory, so its copying the data anyway, its just a matter of how and where. However, this is caller specific, and there's a clause I missed at the end of the ABI document that restricts when this type of optimization can occur (from 4 fields to just 2 fields).


## vtnerd | 2021-09-09T20:37:08+00:00
The `miner_subs_` array should be an accurate count. ZMQ may coalesce TCP connections on the client side, so you need to create two `zmq_context` objects or use a separate process entirely. If this still doesn't work, then I'd have to re-read the documentation because I misunderstood how `XPUB` works.

## j-berman | 2021-09-10T21:54:04+00:00
Is it not safe to use the `already_generated_coins` already in memory here?

## SChernykh | 2021-09-10T22:12:46+00:00
I actually didn't see it. I'll test it and if it has the same value I'll change the code.

## j-berman | 2021-09-10T22:22:03+00:00
Thoughts on treating `seed_hash` as optional and checking if `major_version >= RX_BLOCK_VERSION` to include (here & in other parts of the code too) just in case the endpoint gets used for earlier blocks too?

## SChernykh | 2021-09-10T22:28:43+00:00
It's always used for the current blockchain height, not for any earlier blocks. Even if it's used for major_version before that, seed_hash will just be all 0, but it only matters for testnet experiments (mining older blocks for example).

## j-berman | 2021-09-10T22:41:55+00:00
Sounds fine to me :)

# Action History
- Created by: SChernykh | 2021-08-26T09:10:16+00:00
- Merged at: 2021-09-24T03:13:24+00:00
