---
title: Fixed issues found by static analysis
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7615
author: SChernykh
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-03-18T21:00:12+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-03-30T01:54:37+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2021-03-30T01:54:37+00:00'
merged_at: '2021-03-30T01:54:37+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Copy of #7098 for the release branch:

- rolling_median: tried to free uninitialized pointer in a constructor
- net_node.inl: erase-remove idiom was used incorrectly. remove_if doesn't actually remove elements, see http://cpp.sh/6fcjv
- bulletproofs.cc: call to sizeof() instead of vector.size(), luckily it only impacts performance and not code logic there

# Discussion History
## mj-xmr | 2021-03-21T15:59:32+00:00
The code looks like a valid application of the Erase-Remove idiom, but I would prefer, that you stored the result of `m_used_stripe_peers[index]` in a non-const referece `peer` and reuse it, for much better readability (it's not about speed)

Since this is a copy for the release branch, then maybe just another time.

## SChernykh | 2021-03-21T16:05:26+00:00
This would be an unrelated change to this bugfix. Besides, indexing an `std::array` gives almost 0 overhead after compiler optimizations.

## selsta | 2021-03-21T16:06:07+00:00
Seeing that this is already merged to master no point in changing anymore.

edit: this was already said in a previous comment :P

## mj-xmr | 2021-03-21T16:53:16+00:00
> This would be an unrelated change to this bugfix

I see it a bit differently. It is a chance to improve readability since you are already touching a given line. Perhaps others would disagree.

> Besides, indexing an std::array gives almost 0 overhead after compiler optimizations.

As I said, it's not about speed, but readability. Even without optimisations the gain w.r.t. the remaining code would be negligible.

Plus, this is not a request to change anymore. Just my hint for future.


# Action History
- Created by: SChernykh | 2021-03-18T21:00:12+00:00
- Merged at: 2021-03-30T01:54:37+00:00
