---
title: Add TLSA support to DNSSEC fetching
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7088
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2020-12-07T04:49:58+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-03-30T01:05:32+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2021-03-30T01:05:32+00:00'
merged_at: '2021-03-30T01:05:31+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This adds a function to retrieve IPv4 or IPv6 records, along with TLSA records if the domain has DNSSEC enabled. These functions are unused in this patch. They will potentially be used by p2p encryption (#7078 ) to DNS seed nodes (wth TLS or noise encryption), or by `wallet2` SSL autodetect mode. If both features are rejected by the community, this PR will be closed or reverted.

This has been tested by SSL autodetect mode with the wallet. The associated OpenSSL code is not in this patch.

EDIT: From the OpenSSL description on DANE/TLSA, which helps explain:

> It is expected that the majority of clients employing DANE TLS will be doing "opportunistic DANE TLS" in the sense of RFC7672 and RFC7435. That is, they will use DANE authentication when DNSSEC-validated TLSA records are published for a given peer, and otherwise will use unauthenticated TLS or even cleartext.

The p2p mode would be for publishing pubkeys for DNS seeds, but only if they cannot be included directly in the codebase. Given the context of not hard-coding IP addresses for these seeds, it seems possible that this will be needed.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-07T13:29:48+00:00
It seems possible that dnssec_available might return false on that last call.

## vtnerd | 2020-12-07T19:07:42+00:00
This is intended but perhaps incorrect. If the IP records could not be fetched with DNSSEC the assumption is that TLSA records for the domain could not be fetched either. This also guarantees that the service port number is never leaked via DNS when a domain has DNSSEC disabled.

## moneromooo-monero | 2020-12-07T19:42:42+00:00
I see. The case I see is if a record lapses between the two calls. But looking at the implementation of get_record, it seems fine anyway, so disregard my comment.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2020-12-07T04:49:58+00:00
- Merged at: 2021-03-30T01:05:31+00:00
