---
title: make_unique (and shared) in wallet2 instead of new
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8015
author: mj-xmr
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-10-20T10:22:18+00:00'
updated_at: '2021-10-22T04:26:55+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Thanks to the recently merged @selsta's https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7971, which introduced C++14 features, it's now possible to use `std::make_unique` for a bit of more safety.

From [modern-cpp-features](https://github.com/AnthonyCalandra/modern-cpp-features#stdmake_unique):

`std::make_unique` is the recommended way to create instances of `std::unique_ptr`s due to the following reasons:
* Avoid having to use the `new` operator.
* Prevents code repetition when specifying the underlying type the pointer shall hold.
* Most importantly, it provides exception-safety. Suppose we were calling a function `foo` like so:
```c++
foo(std::unique_ptr<T>{new T{}}, function_that_throws(), std::unique_ptr<T>{new T{}});
```
The compiler is free to call `new T{}`, then `function_that_throws()`, and so on... Since we have allocated data on the heap in the first construction of a `T`, we have introduced a leak here. With `std::make_unique`, we are given exception-safety:
```c++
foo(std::make_unique<T>(), function_that_throws(), std::make_unique<T>());
```



# Discussion History
## mj-xmr | 2021-10-20T10:48:42+00:00
I'm not 100% sure if this is equivalent. I'd prefer to revert this one, unless somebody provides an insight or a correction.

## ndorf | 2021-10-21T04:08:08+00:00
I'm pretty sure it's not equivalent: the `make_unique` version will default-initialize the array elements.

## mj-xmr | 2021-10-21T04:12:43+00:00
This is not that bad, but will the buffer have the same length as the previous one?

## ndorf | 2021-10-21T04:49:55+00:00
Yes, when used with an array type, the only parameter is the array size. See https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/unique_ptr/make_unique, item (2).

I should have written value-initialize, not default-initialize, above. Anyway, in this case it means the buffer will be zeroed if using `make_unique`, or uninitialized if using `new`.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-10-21T20:40:09+00:00
FWIW, I don't like "rewrite just because I like it better that way" patches. I don't contribute that much nowadays though, so I'll just point it out once and not vote against.

## mj-xmr | 2021-10-22T04:26:55+00:00
This is why I only touched one file.
I also have an excuse: showing how to use the new C++14 feature, to yield exception safety.

# Action History
- Created by: mj-xmr | 2021-10-20T10:22:18+00:00
