---
title: 'wallet2: speed up pick_preferred_rct_inputs and get_output_relatednes'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8715
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2023-01-19T02:45:21+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-04-27T19:39:41+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2026-04-27T19:39:40+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Inside of `pick_preferred_rct_inputs`, when we are looking for 1 output which is spendable and fulfills the amount requirement, we create a local `vector` which stores the indices of only the "spendable" transfers (regardless of amounts). Then, when we look for a 2 output combination, we iterate through said list instead of the whole transfers list. This 1) reduces branching and 2) reduces the complexity of the algorithm from `O(T^2)` to `O(max(T, S^2))` where `T = # of total transfers` and `S = # of spendable transfers`. In the case where a large portion of the outputs are already spent, this can be speed up the output picking by quite a bit.

Inside `get_output_relatedness`, the expensive txid check is postponed until after the block height tests.

Co-authored-by: moneromooo-monero <moneromooo-monero@users.noreply.github.com>

# Discussion History
## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T16:22:00+00:00
Consider std::filesystem added in C++17.

## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T16:22:45+00:00
Can you give this a better name please, while you're already editing this line?

## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T16:24:35+00:00
Would be nice to give this number a name.

## Tzadiko | 2025-03-31T16:31:33+00:00
NIT: I always like to use .at() instead of []. It's just a habit I've built because it will notify you via an exception if you accidentally out-of-bounds it. I see a case where someone accidentally does:

```
const size_t i = spendable_transfer_indices[si];
const transfer_details& td = m_transfers[si]; // Forgot to use i
```

And it doesn't get picked up in a code-review.

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2023-01-19T02:45:21+00:00
- Closed at: 2026-04-27T19:39:40+00:00
