---
title: 'wallet: background sync with just the view key [master]'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8619
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels:
- feature
- important
- in progress
- wallet
created_at: '2022-10-21T03:58:02+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-12-22T18:54:52+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-07-16T22:30:22+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-07-16T22:30:22+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This PR brings a set of additions to wallet2 to enable background syncing as discussed in #8082 (initially proposed by @hyc). Note: I've made significant changes to my original PR from discussion in this PR.

## How it works

This PR exposes 2 options for background syncing.

**Option 1**: Reuse the wallet password to encrypt the background cache
**Option 2**: Use a custom background cache password

### Option 1
A user would choose Option 1 if they **do not want** to grant their system perpetual access to their plaintext view key.

- Use case: the user is inactive for 90 seconds or explicitly locks their wallet. The wallet wipes the spend key from memory and automatically starts background syncing. When the user returns to their wallet, provides their password and resumes their session, the wallet brings the spend key back in memory and continues syncing from where the background sync left off.

NOTE: Ideally this Option 1 would be a full wallet's default behavior and the user would not need to opt-in to this behavior. This PR does not make this Option 1 the wallet's default behavior in order to minimize impact in case there is an issue with its implementation. It can be made the wallet's default behavior in the future.

### Option 2

A user would choose Option 2 if they **want** to grant their system perpetual access to their plaintext view key.

- Use case 1: the user's mobile OS closes the wallet app while the wallet is syncing. The mobile device can auto-restart background syncing without the user needing to manually reopen the app (note: the mobile OS would have perpetual access to the user's plaintext view key in this case).
- Use case 2: the user wants a desktop background wallet syncing gadget that auto-starts on boot. This syncing gadget has perpetual access to the background cache password, so the gadget can restart the background sync at any point, but cannot access the user's spend key.
- Use case 3: same as Option 1's use case.

## CLI

### `set background-sync <off|reuse-wallet-password|custom-background-password>`

1. `off` (the default)
	- Upon setting, deletes any "background" files the wallet has saved.
2. `reuse-wallet-password`
	- After setting, when the user is inactive, if the inactivity-lock-timeout is set and auto-refresh is set, then the wallet will automatically background sync (wipe the spend key from memory and sync with view key hot).
	- Note: this option does not create any distinct "background" files. A user can use this option to background sync an already opened normal wallet.
3. `custom-background-password`
	- When setting, the user is prompted to enter a custom background sync cache password. This password must be distinct from the user's wallet password.
	- Upon setting, the wallet generates a "background" wallet from the main wallet and stores it on disk encrypted with a key derived from the *custom background password*. This newly created "background" wallet has no access to the spend key, nor any user-specified data saved (contacts, destinations, tx keys, tx notes, labels, tags). This "background" wallet can be opened and synced in a distinct process when the normal wallet is closed.
	- When the user is inactive, if the inactivity-lock-timeout is set and auto-refresh is set, then the wallet will automatically background sync.

### Opening a "background" wallet

This feature is only available for users that selected Option 2 (`custom-background-password`).

If the wallet's filename is `foo`, then to open its corresponding background wallet, open wallet file `foo.background` of the same directory.

Thus, a user could write a script to auto-start background sync on startup that starts the CLI `monero-wallet-cli --wallet-file <path to background wallet> --password <custom background password>`.

## RPC

### `/setup_background_sync`

Enables syncing in the background with just a view key hot in memory.

**Inputs**

- `background_sync_type` - `string`(`"off"`|`"reuse-wallet-password"`|`"custom-background-password"`); `"reuse-wallet-password"` (reuse the wallet password to encrypt the background cache); `"custom-background-password"` (use a custom background password to encrypt the background cache)
- `wallet_password` - `string`
- `background_cache_password` - `string`; (Optional) Custom background cache password used to encrypt the background cache. This value is only necessary when the `background_sync_type` is `"custom-background-password"`.

**Outputs**

None.

### `/start_background_sync`

Wipes the wallet's spend key from memory and enables an already open wallet to continue syncing with just the view key hot in memory.

**Inputs**

None.

**Outputs**

None.

### `/stop_background_sync`

A background syncing wallet reloads the spend key back in memory and processes the background cache. After successful execution, the wallet can then continue syncing normally from where the background sync left off.

**Inputs**

`wallet_password` - `string`
`seed` - `string`; (Optional) Mnemonic phrase of the wallet.
`seed_offset` - `string`; (Optional) Offset used to derive a new seed from the given mnemonic to recover a secret wallet from the mnemonic phrase.

**Outputs**

None.

### Opening a "background" wallet

If the wallet's filename is `my_foo_wallet`, then to open its background wallet, simply call `/open_wallet` with `filename` set to `my_foo_wallet.background` and `password` set to whatever the background password is set to.

## GUI

See https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/pull/4050

## Mobile wallets

This is how mobile wallet devs can utilize the Options from this PR should they choose to (inspired by discussions with @valldrac, @r4v3r23, and @sgp).

#### Option 1

- A wallet dev would call `setupBackgroundSync(BackgroundSync_ReusePassword, <main wallet password>)` in order for the wallet to use this option.
- If the user does not use the app for a certain period of time, the app can auto-start background syncing.
    - The wallet dev would call `startBackgroundSync()` on whatever trigger the dev wants, and continue syncing the wallet as they would a normal wallet.
- When the user returns to the app and provides their PIN/password, assuming the wallet stayed open and syncing, the app can process the background cache.
    - The wallet dev would call `stopBackgroundSync(wallet_password)`.
- In the event the user reboots their device or the OS closes the app while background syncing, the app would *not* attempt to restart background sync. The user must reopen the wallet manually with their PIN/password in order to continue syncing.
   - The wallet dev would call `openWallet(path="<path>/wallet_filename", password=<main wallet password>)` like normal and the wallet will process the background cache automatically.

#### Option 2

- A wallet dev would call `setupBackgroundSync(BackgroundSync_CustomPassword, <main wallet password>, <custom background password>)` in order for the wallet to use this option.
	- A wallet dev *could* generate a random background password under the hood and keep it stored in the mobile device's secure key store.
- If the user does not use the app for a certain period of time, the app can auto-start background syncing (same behavior as above).
    - The wallet dev would call `startBackgroundSync()` on whatever trigger the dev wants, and continue syncing the wallet as they would a normal wallet.
- When the user returns to the app and provides their PIN/password, assuming the wallet stayed open and syncing, the app can process the background cache (same behavior as above).
    - The wallet dev would call `stopBackgroundSync(wallet_password)`.
- In the event the user reboots their device or the OS closes the app while background syncing, the app can attempt to restart background sync automatically under the hood by reading the custom background password from the key store and reopening the background wallet.
    - The wallet dev would call `openWallet(path="<path>/wallet_filename.background", password=<random custom background password saved in key store>)` and sync the background wallet as they would a normal wallet.
- Once the user reopens their wallet with their PIN/password, the wallet will process the background cache and continue syncing.
    - The wallet dev would call `openWallet(path="<path>/wallet_filename", password=<main wallet password>)` like normal and the wallet will process the background cache automatically.

# Discussion History
## peter-pratt | 2023-04-04T06:52:41+00:00
ignore_callbacks parameter provides the option to bypass the execution of callbacks if it is set to true.

## peter-pratt | 2023-04-04T07:01:56+00:00
returns a detached_blockchain_data object, which contains information about the detached part of the blockchain up to the given height.

## peter-pratt | 2023-04-04T07:05:58+00:00
The purpose of the handle_reorg function is to handle a blockchain reorganization event. A blockchain reorganization occurs when a different branch of the blockchain becomes longer than the current branch, causing a switch to the new branch. When this happens, some blocks that were previously part of the blockchain may become invalidated, and their transactions must be removed from the wallet's transaction pool and reprocessed against the new branch.

handle_reorg function ensures that the wallet is synchronized with the current state of the blockchain after a reorganization event.

## peter-pratt | 2023-04-04T07:14:47+00:00
used to retrieve the block header data of a block at a specific height. This information can be useful for various operations such as verifying the blockchain or retrieving information about a particular block.

## peter-pratt | 2023-04-04T07:19:18+00:00
This function is typically used to retrieve transaction data from the wallet's transaction pool, which contains all unconfirmed transactions known to the wallet. 
is to retrieve and sort transaction data for a given set of transaction IDs.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-07-24T19:43:49+00:00
Info that may help fellow reviewers and testers:

This case is not easy to hit because in most situations a transaction has either an enote going into the wallet, or the wallet knows already one of the enotes that serve as inputs for a transaction, both cases which are then handled elsewhere.

The easiest way that I found to trigger this particular case while testing "manually":

* Create a new wallet and make copies of the wallet files
* Let the first still empty wallet go into background sync
* Send a tx to the wallet address to fund, wait until unlocked
* Spend the funds using the copied wallet files, using `sweep_single` instead of transfer to avoid change
* The first wallet in background sync will go through this code as soon as the spend tx gets mined


## j-berman | 2023-07-25T01:20:07+00:00
If you're testing with the RPC wallet, the following should trigger it as well:

- Create a new wallet
- Receive to the wallet
- Sweep all funds out of the wallet (or use `sweep_single`)
- Enable background sync mode via the new `/set_background_sync` RPC
- Hard rescan via `/rescan_blockchain`
    - The wallet should consider the sweep tx a "plausible spent tx" when scanning

The functional tests do this.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-07-28T05:44:16+00:00
Very comprehensive tests, gives a good confidence everything works.

There is one case that does not get tested, but one that must be almost impossible to unit test because of its inherently random component: Check what happens when a transaction of a third wallet (not sender, not receiver) contains one of the involved enotes as a ring member in a transaction.

Such a transaction will get added as a candidate first, but later ignored as a transaction not belonging to the wallet after all.

Fortunately this case is almost trivial to handle for the wallet. All that is needed is that `wallet2::process_new_transaction` as called in `wallet2::process_background_sync_cache` does not freak out and stops the whole list processing altogether when it sees such a candidate that does not play out, but just ignores it gracefully and returns.

I confirmed that it does by testing manually on testnet. On testnet there are so few transactions happening that if you continue to transact with a third wallet quite soon one of the enotes owned by the wallet in background sync will get used as a decoy.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-07-28T05:46:47+00:00
Was the name of the file really so terrible that you had to rename it? :)

## rbrunner7 | 2023-07-28T06:05:30+00:00
There are some additional methods that could use a call to this, in addition to the 6 that already have it, to note `on_rescan_spent`, `on_rescan_blockchain` and `on_sign` and maybe all the transfer and sweep methods, but it's probably not worth it to add such checks because `wallet2` will stop you anyway reliably if the spend secret key is needed but not available.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-07-28T13:47:51+00:00
Well, at least in theory we still support non-deterministic wallets where we have completely independent spend and view keys ... maybe just forbid background sync for them and all is well?

## j-berman | 2023-09-21T23:14:38+00:00
Note: I will likely end up not exposing this `process_background_cache_on_open` function from wallet2 so wallet API devs won't need to deal with it after implementing @kayabaNerve's suggestion here: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8619#issuecomment-1730458890

When loading a normal wallet, wallet2 can handle processing the background cache internally.

## j-berman | 2023-10-10T01:39:36+00:00
This is checking the private spend key derives to the public spend key (not that the view key is derived from spend key). Do you know of any circumstances where this isn't the case except for with multisig wallets (which can't background sync)?

## j-berman | 2023-10-10T01:39:40+00:00
Agree with all except I think `on_rescan_blockchain` should be ok to call (see how the tests use it)

## j-berman | 2023-10-16T19:01:40+00:00
It's thanks to this line that a user who chooses Option 1 (`reuse-wallet-password`) is still able to open their background wallet file directly, using their wallet password, which thus exposes the password which can be used to decrypt their encrypted spend key (which lives on disk).

@DangerousFreedom1984 pointed out this could potentially lead a user to leave their spend key more exposed than the user may realize. I think this is a fair assessment.

I also have concern over a user who chooses Option 2 (`custom-background-password`) and ends up providing a custom password that is the same as their wallet password, which has the same effect as the above.

Couple more TODO's:
1. When a user chooses Option 1 (`reuse-wallet-password`), remove the ability for a user to open a background wallet directly reusing their wallet password. Thus, opening a background wallet directly will only be supported via Option 2.
2. When a user chooses Option 2 (`custom-background-password`), ensure the provided custom password is not the same as the user's wallet password.

## DangerousFreedom1984 | 2023-10-16T20:24:02+00:00
Thanks! Yeah, I believe it would be safer like you propose. The scenario I want to address is when the user misuses his background-wallet-password and gets all his wallet files compromised. Even in this scenario he should not be able to lose his funds.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-22T06:49:03+00:00
Just wondering: Is this needed in addition to the enum that exists already in `wallet2` because the "API" avoids mixing own things with wallet2 things? And do the names have underscores here, but none in wallet2, because again we are in another environment, with other naming conventions?

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-22T07:46:11+00:00
Is it really worth it to introduce this serialize variant, just for the single application in `COMMAND_RPC_SETUP_BACKGROUND_SYNC` for the background sync passport that you have so far?

`KV_SERIALIZE_OPT`  is used 62 times in the same header file, also for some strings, so ...

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-22T08:15:54+00:00
Maybe standardize the terminology and always use *background syncing wallet* instead of mixing that with *background wallet*? Or, always use the simpler and shorter term *background wallet*, maybe ...

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-22T13:10:27+00:00
Any particular reason why these two checks do not take place right at the begin of the method?

## j-berman | 2023-10-23T03:27:07+00:00
> Just wondering: Is this needed in addition to the enum that exists already in wallet2 because the "API" avoids mixing own things with wallet2 things?

Right, the GUI doesn't include wallet2.h directly, it's exposed to wallet2 via this wallet2_api.h. I'm open to a saner approach instead of duplicating this enum logic if you've got one in mind

> And do the names have underscores here, but none in wallet2, because again we are in another environment, with other naming conventions?

Right, see wallet2_api.h 's `ConnectionStatus` versus wallet2.h's `AskPasswordType`.

## j-berman | 2023-10-23T03:27:11+00:00
Removed in the latest round of revisions. I had added that in there when I first implemented the API in a way that made it necessary, but it's not necessary as is.

## j-berman | 2023-10-23T03:27:15+00:00
Good spot. In the latest I use the term "background wallet" for background wallets, and "background syncing wallet" for a normal wallet that is background syncing. How's that?

## j-berman | 2023-10-23T03:27:18+00:00
The error cases reveal some info about the wallet, so I figured better to authenticate the password/spend key first before revealing any info to the caller just as a default behavior here so long as the correct password and spend key are expected in this function. I get that it probably provides no meaningful protection in any practical case and would move these to the beginning. No strong opinion.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-23T16:58:07+00:00
That's interesting, I didn't even become aware during review that there are *two* terms for *two* different things, I was assuming mere "sloppiness" regarding terminology, so to say ...

Two terms that are not as similar as those two could be something, but I wasn't able to come up with something in this regard. I think it will be fine with those two used consequently.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-26T17:14:54+00:00
Sounds good to me. Under these circumstances I wouldn't mind the duplication because it allows to keep up the proper naming conventions.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-26T17:15:27+00:00
Perfect!

## rbrunner7 | 2023-10-26T17:16:51+00:00
Sounds ok to me as is. Just wanted to make sure it's not a simple oversight.

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:06:46+00:00
Mixing virtual methods with default parameters can usually lead to unexpected results.  The reason is that a virtual function is called on the dynamic type of the object, while the default parameter values are based on the
static type.

See the following as an example: https://godbolt.org/z/qf65bohP1

Consider pursuing an alternative approach here (not mixing the two)?

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:07:36+00:00
Method name implies that this is a getter that won't mutate state. Can it be tagged `const` as such? 

```
virtual BackgroundSyncType getBackgroundSyncType() const = 0;
```

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:13:39+00:00
Nit: 

1. No need for `break` after a throw in the default.
2. Consider moving the break after the end bracket, for example:

```
switch (number)
{
   case 0:
   {
   }
   break; // <---
}
```

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:23:51+00:00
Nit:

Instead of [using exceptions to control program flow](https://isocpp.org/wiki/faq/exceptions#why-not-exceptions), consider an alternative, such as a a `TryGet` method.

Pseudocode:

```
BackgroundKey backgroundKey;
if (!TryGet(&backgroundKey)) // Alternatively, can take by non-const reference.
{
    MERROR("Failed to update background cache, custom background key not set");
    return;
}
```

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:29:53+00:00
As someone who isn't familiar with the codebase, `r` isn't descriptive enough to help me understand what is expected to be returned here. Consider renaming `r` to something more descriptive. The same comment applies elsewhere.

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:34:08+00:00
Nit: Perhaps this should be before MDEBUG.

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:37:29+00:00
I thought you were making a copy because you don't want to accidentally mutate the private member variable `m_last_block_reward`. If that's the case, consider marking it `const`. If I'm mistaken, let me know.

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:40:15+00:00
Nit:

You can exclude the paremeter list if you don't use it `[&, this] { encrypt_keys(wallet_password); }`.

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:45:09+00:00
For my own understanding, what is happening here? Does `Acrhive` need to have its `operator&` overloaded for this to make sense? Is `a` being mutated via the & operator overload? I surmise that the & operator is being overloaded to mutate Archive's state because `a` is taken by reference and there doesn't seem to be a return value from `a & thing`

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:46:01+00:00
Consider prepending _error to `invalid_spend_key`.

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:46:21+00:00
Consider prepending _error to background_wallet_already_open.

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:46:42+00:00
Consider prepending _error to background_custom_password_same_as_wallet_password.

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:49:20+00:00
Nit:

For readability, consider using an `if` instead of a ternary (pseudocode):

```
boost::optional<type> background_cache_password = boost::none;
if (background_sync_type == tools::wallet2::backgroundSyncCustomPassword)
    background_cache_password  = boost::optional<type>(instance);
```

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:49:47+00:00
~Any reason you use `std::current_exception()` instead of `e`?~

I forgot the return type of std::current_exception is not std::exception. 😅  Perhaps consider catching `(...)` to prevent confusion.

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-04T16:53:33+00:00
I don't know much about security and am not as familiar with the codebase as you, so forgive me if this question comes off as naive, but sending the `seed` and `wallet_password` seems suspect / dangerous. Perhaps I'm confusing `seed` here with what we traditionally think of when we think of a wallet seed (the private spend key). If this is not the actual private spend key / seed used to access the users' funds, consider renaming it, so that it doesn't confuse less-familiar users like myself.

## j-berman | 2023-11-06T00:43:22+00:00
In the latest I removed the default instantiation from the virtual method in the base class, but kept it in the derived class. The discrepancy feels a little odd, but also seems less likely to cause an issue as described in your example. I would like to keep the default param in the API for devs who don't want to concern themselves with the "custom background password" option.

Another thing to keep in mind is that this pattern (default params in virtual methods) is all over the Monero code base including in virtual methods of this Wallet class, so all devs reusing these interfaces (including this one) need to be aware of this regardless.

## j-berman | 2023-11-06T00:43:49+00:00
This alternative is 4 more lines of code versus 1 in this particular spot, I'm going to keep it as is and I don't think it's worth arguing over

## j-berman | 2023-11-06T00:43:55+00:00
This pattern is used all over the Monero code base and I think it's fine (and I'm normally a proponent of descriptive names). My immediate thought is and has always been that it stands for `result` (or `response` and it's a boolean so either are fine). Another alternative here would be to not capture the response in a variable at all and throw on false return, but I think this is cleaner.

## j-berman | 2023-11-06T00:44:06+00:00
Added another MDEBUG inside that if statement to clarify what's happening if it's called and that's true.

## j-berman | 2023-11-06T00:44:11+00:00
Should be const, done in the latest.

## j-berman | 2023-11-06T00:44:17+00:00
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/71874042/how-does-boost-serialization-make-use-of-operator-to-implement-archiving-seri

## j-berman | 2023-11-06T00:44:30+00:00
Followed the pattern used in the rest of the file and I think it's fine. Same for other comments.

## j-berman | 2023-11-06T00:46:16+00:00
It's the wallet seed, following the pattern from `COMMAND_RPC_RESTORE_DETERMINISTIC_WALLET`.

Starting background sync wipes the spend key from memory, so stopping background sync needs to bring the spend key back in memory.

A user would need to pass the wallet password here if the user's seed is stored in an encrypted file on disk. The password is used to decrypt the file contents and reload the spend key back in memory to process the background cache.

A user would need to pass the seed here if the user's seed isn't stored on disk (if the wallet is an in-memory wallet as is the case in some of the functional tests).

I'm open to an alternative approach to passing strings (edit: I meant plaintext strings) here if you have one in mind. @moneromooo-monero had one [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8619#issuecomment-1632951461) but that seemed particularly heavy and out of scope for this PR. Another could be leaning on http auth (and taking greater care with auth material server-side), which also seems heavy for this PR.


## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-06T23:13:39+00:00
Sounds good.

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-06T23:13:52+00:00
Cool

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-06T23:14:41+00:00
Sounds good, moving it out of the base class makes sense.

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-06T23:23:21+00:00
Thanks for explaining. This makes more sense to me now. For my own understanding, and after reading over Moneromooo's comment, it seems like with the current setup it would be on-the-user to ensure that the plaintext (json) traffic to and from the RPC wallet is encrypted, is this correct (assuming the other suggested avenues are outside the scope of this PR)?

## Agorist-Action | 2023-11-06T23:24:13+00:00
Great.

## j-berman | 2023-11-07T01:48:45+00:00
The wallet RPC [supports SSL](https://monerodocs.org/interacting/monero-wallet-rpc-reference/) or it can be exposed behind a hidden service.

Perhaps RPC endpoints that expose spend key material in the request/response bodies could require an SSL connection by default, and allow the setting to be overwritten at startup via a flag. I also think that would be out of scope for this PR considering all the endpoints that already support spend key material in request params. But I catch your drift in calling this out. It's a good thing to point out in review.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-11-24T15:15:10+00:00
What is this good for, why would it be important to unfreeze?

## j-berman | 2023-11-24T15:45:19+00:00
Freezing outputs is a feature that lets users manually prevent the wallet from spending specific outputs. Users can't spend from background [syncing] wallets, so an output's frozen status is extra user-provided data that doesn't need to be saved to the background wallet.

## rbrunner7 | 2023-11-24T15:47:18+00:00
Ah, I see, there is no technical problem, just the issue of completely removing *any* user-provided data from a background wallet. Neat.

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T01:44:33+00:00
I don't know if this string belongs here 

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T03:54:21+00:00
This conditional makes deserialization dependent on runtime variables, which makes it impossible to load as-is without dependencies. What I suggest is incrementing the version, then, if the version is great enough, serializing `m_background_sync_data` unconditionally. It makes the code much cleaner, allows the cache to be deserialized without any known context, and makes recovering from errors easier, only at the cost of a couple bytes. Since you can check the actual value of `m_is_background_wallet` and `m_background_sync_type` against the expected values, you can actually provide meaningful feedback to the user instead of "huh, wallet didn't deserialize, that sucks".  

```
if (ver < 31)
{
    m_background_sync_data = background_sync_data_t{};
    return;
}
a & m_background_sync_data;

... (AT THE BOTTOM OF THE FILE)

BOOST_CLASS_VERSION(tools::wallet2, 31)
```

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T03:54:58+00:00
Same comment here, except you change `VERSION_FIELD`. 

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T03:55:56+00:00
unused

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T17:26:13+00:00
If we're not serializing the signatures, could we use a `cryptonote::transaction_prefix`?

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T17:28:27+00:00
These three fields should be moved elsewhere for organization purposes since all the fields surrounding these fields are user settings serialized in the .keys file

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T17:32:53+00:00
This field is never set

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T17:34:19+00:00
The field `index_in_background_sync_data` is never actually set in the code, so this sorting may be undefined. If the field `index_in_background_sync_data` is value initialized, then the sorting will do nothing. 

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T17:52:11+00:00
```suggestion
  m_background_sync_data = background_sync_data_t{};
```

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T17:52:35+00:00
```suggestion
  m_background_sync_data = background_sync_data_t{};
```

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T17:55:45+00:00
I would put a comment here explaining to future devs what constitutes "user data" in this case, so if they add fields in the future they can know to clear them here when applicable. We know that this method is meant to clear large blobs of data pertaining to wallets that isn't useful for background scanning, but future devs won't have that context. 

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T17:57:37+00:00
If this variable is being accessed across threads, it needs to be an `std::atomic<bool>`. 

## jeffro256 | 2023-12-22T18:05:45+00:00
should we also set `m_is_background_wallet` here?

## j-berman | 2023-12-27T03:20:54+00:00
Moved into wallet2.cpp

## j-berman | 2023-12-27T03:21:43+00:00
Done in the latest.

The reason I originally did that was to enable loading a newer normal wallet with no background cache in an older wallet version, but in hindsight I think that was unnecessary.

## j-berman | 2023-12-27T03:22:47+00:00
`process_new_transaction` processes background synced txs upon reloading the spend key and takes a `cryptonote::transaction` as a param; changing it to take a `cryptnote::transaction_prefix` instead has other undesirable effects e.g. requires changing the wallet2 callbacks as well. Which means we'd want to initialize a `cryptonote::transaction` from a  `cryptonote::transaction_prefix` instead so we don't have to change `process_new_transaction`'s function signature, which seems more complex than simply serializing the base here. I'm open to an alternative if you think there's a simpler solution here.

## j-berman | 2023-12-27T03:24:05+00:00
FWIW there are other runtime fields not set in the .keys file in this section such as `m_is_initialized` and `m_node_rpc_proxy`, but I moved these three fields into their own block anyway

## j-berman | 2023-12-27T03:24:28+00:00
The field was set as `bgs_idx` in all the spots where a `background_synced_tx` was inserted into the background sync cache; I made it cleaner using Seraphis lib style in the latest

## j-berman | 2023-12-27T03:24:44+00:00
See the other comment

## j-berman | 2023-12-27T03:26:02+00:00
I think the best way to get thread safe access to `m_background_syncing` is to let the caller handle thread safety, which I made sure to do via `LOCK_REFRESH` in the wallet API, using `LOCK_IDLE_SCOPE` in the CLI, and the RPC should be ok because the server runs in a single thread.

I think if we wanted to add more logic into wallet2 that handles thread safety surrounding `m_background_syncing`, then every function that reads/writes `m_background_syncing` would need to grab a lock, which adds a fair bit of complexity I think for little to no gain. I don't think an atomic would solve the problem here, but maybe I'm missing something. Can you expand on an example where an atomic would yield correct behavior where the current code doesn't?

## j-berman | 2023-12-27T03:26:27+00:00
It's set above already

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-04T17:14:54+00:00
Oh shoot you're right. I didn't see the aggregate brace initialization, but yeah this is definitely better 

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-10T16:32:00+00:00
We should throw an error if `m_is_background_wallet` and `!same_file` since it semantically makes sense to not move *just* the background sync file. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-11T15:57:29+00:00
Is *only* overwriting the background cache the behavior we want when storing the main wallet file? I would think that we would want to store the main wallet file as-is and not overwrite the background cache so we don't *lose* progress when calling `store_to()`. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-11T19:53:17+00:00
Should `.address.txt` be included here?

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-11T20:01:43+00:00
These constants (as well as `off`) could be really useful to add to the `Wallet` class 

## j-berman | 2024-01-20T06:38:49+00:00
Good spot -- this made me think to also add slightly clearer `THROW_WALLET_EXCEPTION_IF(m_wallet_file.empty()` to both `store_background_cache` and `store_background_keys`. Those shouldn't be triggerable.

## j-berman | 2024-01-20T06:39:59+00:00
Sensitive user data from the cache + the `m_cache_key` have been wiped by this point (grep `m_cache_key.scrub()`). For all intents and purposes, it's as if the opened wallet *is* the background wallet at this point. As long as the main wallet processes the background cache on reopen, which it will attempt to do automatically via `process_background_cache_on_open`, no progress gets lost.

If you look at the test in `transfer.py` with the comment `# Close wallet while background syncing, then reopen`, the custom password test is testing this case to make sure no progress is lost.

## jeffro256 | 2024-04-21T05:21:52+00:00
This should be put before `get_and_verify_password()` since it would be frustrating to type your password in and THEN get a parse error.

## jeffro256 | 2024-04-21T05:26:38+00:00
For code clarity, this `if` branch could be negated and styled as a guard i.e:

```
if (!pwd_container)
    return true;

<UNINDENT EVERYTHING ELSE INSIDE>
```

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2022-10-21T03:58:02+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-07-16T22:30:22+00:00
