---
title: '[seraphis] common: add container helpers'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8661
author: UkoeHB
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-12-01T23:26:31+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-06-28T14:36:03+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2023-06-27T16:27:27+00:00'
merged_at: '2023-06-27T16:27:27+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This is a PR in my 'upstreaming seraphis_lib project', the changes here are not used anywhere yet.

- Adds templates to assist with handling containers.

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2022-12-15T18:48:29+00:00
While this seems correct, silently defaulting to two < instead of a == will hinder performance (I suspect operator== is typically faster (or at least not slower) than even just one operator<). So this seems an odd choice. Is this because operator< is more likely to be available ?


## moneromooo-monero | 2022-12-15T18:51:36+00:00
You probably want an example in a comment, this one is confusing

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-15T18:57:38+00:00
Checking if a container is sorted uses `operator<`. I want to use the same criteria for testing uniqueness. For example, I use this to check if tx output enotes are sorted by onetime address and also that all onetime addresses are unique.

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-15T19:31:53+00:00
Tbh I am not convinced this is the best solution. Even though it is clean at the call-site, it is not clear what's happening. I may update this PR in the next couple days with an alternative.

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-18T16:21:55+00:00
Ok I updated this to allow a user-defined comparison operator so you can add call-site clarity for non-trivial types by defining a comparison function.

Note that testing uniqueness with `adjacent_find` only works if you use the same comparison criteria as `is_sorted`. With a different comparison criteria you need an O(N^2 + N / 2) element-wise equality search (e.g. if you want to use `operator==` but it's not equivalent to double negative `operator<`).

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T14:16:51+00:00
I don't understand the context where this adaptor is useful. A templated argument for a callable should work with _all callable types_, making this conversion to lambda unnecessary. There are exceptions, but by-value is the commonly accepted way to use callable arguments.

When using by-value, the callee always has the option of using references inside the callable OR using `std::cref`/`std::ref` at the call-site. In fact, `std::cref` is preferrable in most contexts; the syntax is what Google is trying to do with their funky style guide, and is what Rust is trying to do with the language grammar itself. In other words:
```c++
std::remove_if(vec.begin(), vec.end(), std::ref(mutable_functor));
```
is callable by `std::remove_if` AND can mutate the state of `mutable_functor`, despite the argument being by-value. I did a quick test with a more simple function and the code generation was as expected.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T15:34:26+00:00
How often is this used? This implementation should be doable in one-pass, but I think it may require a hand-rolled for-loop. This should also reduce the number of invocations to `ComparisonOp`.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T15:34:51+00:00
Nitpick but `ComparisonOp` changes the naming style within the project and even with this PR.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T15:50:53+00:00
Why type-erase the function here? It does reduce the number of compiler-generated-asm-functions, but at a runtime-cost. Then there's the generated code for each `std::function` assignment ... usually easier to not have a type-erasure in this context.

One issue I see is type-checking and compiler errors confusing other developers ... ?
```c++
using key_type = std::remove_cv_t<KeyT>;
using value_type = std::remove_cv_t<ValueT>;
static_assert(
  std::is_same<key_type, decltype(get_internal_key_func(std::declval<value_type>())>::value,
  "invalid callable - expected callable in form Key(Value)"
);
```

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T15:52:46+00:00
What situation does this happen? The key is basically always paired with the value in the API, to prevent this type of duplication in typical usage. I can see a situation where the jamtis/seraphis verification code may end up using this for various reasons, but I want to make sure the use case is valid (because its definitely an extremely rare case).

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T15:58:15+00:00
Definitely frustrating that `emplace_back()` always returns `void` in STL. Still uncertain why that decision was made.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T15:58:47+00:00
Again, I don't think `std::function` is really needed here.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T16:04:29+00:00
Bikeshedding - why not shorten name to `erase_if`? That C++20 name is for `std::vector` inputs, but the behavior is similar ... ?

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-24T21:40:43+00:00
I need this adaptor to disambiguate function overloads at the callsite. [Example of adaptor](https://github.com/UkoeHB/monero/blob/3517c428dd1232cdf14dda9b4d74fe0eb6b1bbe2/src/seraphis/tx_builders_mixed.cpp#L857), [example of is_sorted_and_unique()](https://github.com/UkoeHB/monero/blob/3517c428dd1232cdf14dda9b4d74fe0eb6b1bbe2/src/seraphis/tx_validators.cpp#L356).

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-24T21:41:03+00:00
However, it's probably fine to update the adaptor to return a `std::cref()`.

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-24T21:44:07+00:00
Looks like I call it 20 times in `seraphis_lib`. Hand-rolling an is_sorted check seems excessive.

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-24T21:47:41+00:00
I wrote something that works, that's all. Do you have an alternative?

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-24T21:50:25+00:00
I use this a few times in the multisig utilities, [example](https://github.com/UkoeHB/monero/blob/3517c428dd1232cdf14dda9b4d74fe0eb6b1bbe2/src/multisig/multisig_signing_helper_utils.cpp#L619). The multisig structs are passed around as structs, then assembled into maps for processing. It's very important to check that the mapping is valid.

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-24T21:52:24+00:00
Alternative?

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-24T21:52:54+00:00
The typical `std::erase_if` takes a pair of iterators, this function iterates the entire map. I want to make sure there is no ambiguity. There is no advantage to a short name here.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T22:44:45+00:00
I missed this earlier, no overload is neeeded for raw functions if the argument is taken by-value.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T22:45:57+00:00
```c++
template<typename K, typename V, typename F>
bool keys_match_internal_values(const std::unordered_map<K, V>& map, F f)
```
also works with all callables, and `std::cref`/`std::ref` can be used by caller as needed (or similar).

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T23:09:37+00:00
> disambiguate function overloads at the callsite.

Yikes. There has to be a built-in way to handle this. It's easy with templated overloads, but not certain (off-top-of-head) how with non-templated functions.

Anyway, yes, take the argument by-value and then do the lambda capture by-value. Prevents any unexpected nastiness if someone uses the function in some funky way too.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T23:10:06+00:00
And it could be a C++14 move-capture-by-value too.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-24T23:15:58+00:00
The `boost::range` library and Niebler's rangev3 library use the same naming syntax despite taking ranges. This is basically an `erase_if`, that could take `typename T` and probably work with all containers (afaik).

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-25T00:32:10+00:00
A range is similar to a pair of iterators... renaming to `erase_if` basically invites expanding the behavior of this function more than is needed.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-25T00:53:00+00:00
Just remembered the typical C++ way to handle this -
```c++
struct compare_KI_
{
    bool operator()(const key_image1&, const key_image2&) const;
    bool operator()(const key_image2&, const key_image2&) const;
};
constexpr const compare_KI_ compare_KI{};
```
And then the overload selection is chosen inside `std::sort` instead of at the call-site to `std::sort`.  But this technique you've come up with has a bit less boilerplate and doesn't require the declarations to be in the same header.

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-25T01:02:16+00:00
Except for the problem of overload resolution.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-25T16:13:35+00:00
My frustration with these solutions for compare function overloads - plenty of examples of people using generic predicates don't run into this issue by: (1) using unique function names, (2) using the `struct` solution given in another comment, or (3) using `std::bind` like so: `std::bind<bool(int, int)>(my_compare, _1, _2)`.

I'm not completely against these custom solutions (although I'm wondering suspiciously why solution (1) above isn't being used), but ALSO why not use the `compare_func` above instead of a custom `is_sorted_and_unique` which only works with `const&` arguments for the compare function?

--------------

I also wanted to document (somewhere) this more generic solution I came up with:

```c++
template <typename F>
inline auto select_func(F f)
{
    return [f = std::move(f)](auto... args) {
        return f(std::forward<decltype(args)>(args)...); 
    };
}

template<typename T, typename F = bool(const T&, const T&)>
inline auto compare_func(F f)
{
    return select_func(std::move(f));
}
```
which can be used like: 
```c++
bool my_compare(int, int);
bool my_compare(const public_key&, const public_key&);
std::sort(vec1.begin(), vec1.end(), select_func<bool(int, int)>(my_compare));
std::sort(vec2.begin(), vec2.end(), compare_func<public_key>(my_compare));
```

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-26T17:43:59+00:00
I wrote a tool that works for my use case. You're kind of saying I shouldn't have this tool because it doesn't work for code I didn't write... (comparison functions that aren't using `const&` parameters).

In practice, user-defined comparison free-functions should almost always be using `const&` parameters. Trivial types don't need a user-defined function - just use the built-in `operator<`. If anything, enforcing `const&` prevents accidentally writing expensive copies.

For completeness I added your `select_func` thing (renamed to `as_functor`).

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-26T17:46:02+00:00
I updated `keys_match_internal_values()` so the predicate is in charge of checking the key mapping, which should be a little more generic and understandable at the call-site.

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-28T21:42:03+00:00
> return [f = std::move(f)](auto... args) {
>        return f(std::forward<decltype(args)>(args)...); 
>    };

Btw, don't the `args` here become value parameters (copies), not references?

## vtnerd | 2022-12-29T14:48:16+00:00
Yup, I botched that particular portion, it needs to be `auto&&...`.

## vtnerd | 2023-05-11T15:13:09+00:00
If the container is sorted, `std::lower_bound` instead? If the list is large, `lower_bound` will make a difference since its a logarithmic search.

## vtnerd | 2023-05-11T15:16:41+00:00
So the difference here is that the key,value are given to the predicate, as opposed to just the key with the standard search functions?

## UkoeHB | 2023-05-11T16:49:04+00:00
[`lower_bound`](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/algorithm/lower_bound) searches for a specific `value`, but here we are checking if the entire container is unique.

## UkoeHB | 2023-05-11T16:52:47+00:00
The difference compared to `unordered_map::erase()`? Erase removes specific keys.

This implementation is the one noted here [`std::erase_if(unordered_map)`](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/container/unordered_map/erase_if).

## vtnerd | 2023-05-16T20:48:30+00:00
Could've been solved by me reading `adjacent_find` documentation.

## vtnerd | 2023-05-16T20:49:40+00:00
Yup, could've spotted that with some better inspection.

# Action History
- Created by: UkoeHB | 2022-12-01T23:26:31+00:00
- Merged at: 2023-06-27T16:27:27+00:00
