---
title: 'multisig: fixes'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8114
author: perfect-daemon
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-12-14T20:11:25+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-02-19T21:30:53+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2025-02-19T21:30:53+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2021-12-14T22:11:38+00:00
This will write nothing if the value passed is 0. I don't think this is the intent. A unit test checking it writes the same as the existing varint writer (or that the reader gets back the same values) would find this.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-15T17:13:13+00:00
And why the new function at all? Static bounds checking? Couldn't it just do the static asserts, and then forward to the other existing function (so there isn't unnecessary code duplication)? This does have an extra runtime check for the array bounds, but if that triggers a truncation occurs that isn't handled.

Also, trivial bikeshedding, but the parameters are flipped from the other function, which bothers my OCD.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-15T20:52:26+00:00
If this is the only place `cached_CLSAG_Gen_t` is referenced outside of the cpp, then the entire `class` declaration can be moved into the cpp and only a forward declare is needed in this header.

I don't think the headers can be reduced further, so its primarily just useful for keeping things out of the header and C++ parser.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-15T21:57:50+00:00
Might as well `std::move` this.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-15T23:25:54+00:00
Is there a check somewhere to ensure the inputs are ringct, as opposed to version 0? Its probably in `wallet2` somewhere?

EDIT: I meant to delete this, because I noticed later there was a check for this further up the call stack.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-16T00:02:08+00:00
This is an aliasing violation (but probably won't blow up). Still safer to run the conversion function.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-16T02:33:57+00:00
Minor speed improvement - `mu_C_params.emplace_back(mu_P_params.back());`

## vtnerd | 2021-12-16T19:52:19+00:00
`const rct::key` -> don't want this one to accidentally change. 

## vtnerd | 2021-12-17T02:59:24+00:00
I don't see why this needs to be encoded as a varint at all - copying to a `uint32_t` with `SWAP32LE` (or `uint64_t` if concerned about portability), and two `static_assert`s would do the same thing without the specialized function for varint.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-17T23:04:03+00:00
At a glance, this doesn't seem correct. In the source paper (Musig2), the randomly point (`R`) is chosen cooperatively so that secret shares never leak to the other participants. It seems like something similar would have to be done here, but I haven't gone through the math details to verify any potential issue.

Has the adaption of musig2 been reviewed by anyone else (besides me)?

## vtnerd | 2021-12-17T23:11:38+00:00
This is a follow-up to my other comment about the random `s` values being selected by a single participant. The participants providing randomized public keys affect the outcome of these iterative `c` hash values, but that output value was never controllable (that's the point of this hash function usage from the verifiers perspective). That should also mean that the randomized public keys are trivial in terms of the purpose with respect to the musig algorithm - it doesn't seem like they serve any useful purpose unless they affect the selection of the `s` values.

EDIT: Ignore this comment, and focus on the other one about the `s` value. There's another randomly generated value in here, and the current implementation uses each participants random for that. 

## vtnerd | 2021-12-17T23:13:27+00:00
FWIW, I don't think the randomized values from all participants needs to influence this value, just the `s` values.

## UkoeHB | 2021-12-17T23:43:57+00:00
`b_params` is hashed by `key cn_fast_hash(const keyV &keys)`, so all elements need to be `rct::keys` (not ints).

## UkoeHB | 2021-12-17T23:45:17+00:00
This conditional is generating the fake CLSAG responses for all decoy ring members. Yes, I did a thorough review already (hence why I approved this PR...).

## UkoeHB | 2021-12-17T23:53:40+00:00
This code block is a bit hard to read due to the indexing. It's only using the decoy ring members' fake responses (not the responses from the multisig participants).

You can think of a ring signature as a Schnorr signature, where the real signature challenge is just a complicated hashing sequence of decoy members and fake responses. This code block is just computing the real signature challenge for multisig participants to respond to.

The line `c = rct::hash_to_scalar(c_params);` above this block is where the multisig participants' nonces are hashed (the real responses `s[l]` aren't defined in this function, they are defined way down in `finalize_tx()`).

## UkoeHB | 2021-12-17T23:55:44+00:00
This code block is only executed `if (not reconstruction)`, which is only true for the initial tx proposer. All other participants reconstruct his tx.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-18T05:02:53+00:00
It doesn't matter - the bit encoding just needs to be same. Do an endianess swap and `memcpy` into a `rct::key`.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-18T05:04:24+00:00
Yes, I know.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-18T05:05:45+00:00
Sorry - this comment was (somewhat) pointless, I was stating that I think all participants need to alter `s` somehow, but I didn't think these randomly generated `a` values needed that.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-18T06:10:49+00:00
I had a reasonably good idea of what this was doing (as in, you just explained bits I already knew).

My question (below, this was mostly noise here as I was thinking outloud) was whether `s` was a set of nonce values, and since you did a review already, presumably your answer is that they are not nonce values.

The CLSAG paper doesn't list any values as nonce, only that `alpha` and a series of `s` values are selected randomly. At a glance this musig algorithm appears to be violating the paper, because randomness isn't provided/enforced for the `s` values (the initiator gets to select all of the values).

The "fake"/random `s` values are definitely just for symmetry (logical "OR") to conceal the real `P` in use - more obvious after some fresh eyes (was staring at this too long earlier). You can't recover anything from a re-use in those values because they are used in equations isolated from any secret keys

## vtnerd | 2021-12-18T06:19:05+00:00
I will probably finish up my review tomorrow, the hardest part is done (going through the relevant papers to track how it mapped to code, and changes necessary for the custom CLSAG scheme). So far it appears to be conforming to the two relevant papers; my review is "downhill" from here.

## UkoeHB | 2021-12-18T18:09:09+00:00
'Nonce' is the same as `alpha`. IIRC the newer papers all use nonce, which imo is a better semantic than `alpha`.

## UkoeHB | 2021-12-18T18:12:46+00:00
> The "fake"/random s values are definitely just for symmetry (logical "OR") to conceal the real P in use - more obvious after some fresh eyes (was staring at this too long earlier). You can't recover anything from a re-use in those values because they are used in equations isolated from any secret keys

Right, the real `s` is the real response, which is computed from a sum of multisig partial responses. The fake `s` are just random numbers/decoy responses. Do you still think these fake responses need to be computed from material provided by all multisig participants? Afaict, the only advantage this offers is if the tx proposer has weak RNG, then adding RNG from other participants will improve it (i.e. prevent observers from figuring out the real spend's index). If the tx proposer is malicious (or any of the signers), then adding more entropy from other participants is meaningless (the malicious individual can just publish the real index).

## vtnerd | 2021-12-22T17:25:59+00:00
> Do you still think these fake responses need to be computed from material provided by all multisig participants?

I do not think the `s` values need to be included in the shared random computation.

> Afaict, the only advantage this offers is if the tx proposer has weak RNG, then adding RNG from other participants will improve it (i.e. prevent observers from figuring out the real spend's index). If the tx proposer is malicious (or any of the signers), then adding more entropy from other participants is meaningless (the malicious individual can just publish the real index).

The "penalty" for making the scheme easier appears to be a standard mechanism for publicly leaking the real spend. Since any of the signers can do this anyway, as you stated, this doesn't appear to be an issue worth fixing.

## vtnerd | 2021-12-23T05:53:32+00:00
I don't have anything else to add, but there are some comments that the OP should comment on or update.

## UkoeHB | 2021-12-23T21:14:05+00:00
> but there are some comments that the OP should comment on or update.

Care to elaborate?

## vtnerd | 2021-12-24T15:14:21+00:00
* An aliasing issue that can be trivial removed
* The new varint function isn't needed (chop it for maintenance purposes)
* A `scalarmult` can be easily removed
* A `std::move` can be added easily
* A simple `const` can be added

They are all simple changes, so it seemed easiest to make them now. Only the first two are useful before merge. The varint thing in particular would need to be chopped before a release, otherwise it becomes part of the protocol and must be maintained. The simple swap+`memcpy` is preferable to the maintenance of that specific function.

## UkoeHB | 2021-12-30T16:11:08+00:00
Oh, I thought you meant code comments.

# Action History
- Created by: perfect-daemon | 2021-12-14T20:11:25+00:00
- Closed at: 2025-02-19T21:30:53+00:00
