---
title: 'rpc: --rpc-ssl-persistent CLI option'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8385
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-06-14T02:02:14+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-01-18T07:53:47+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This PR expands on #7366, which introduced the `rpc_ssl.*` files in the data directory. @moneromooo-monero brought up a good point in this comment: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/7366#pullrequestreview-587469276. When a daemon presents the same certificate across restarts and connections, this opens an opportunity for tracking. @vtnerd responded to this critique by limiting the feature to daemons not in restricted mode. In my opinion, this closes off the feature to those nodes who need it most: public nodes. It also didn't address the fact that bad actors can still identify unrestricted daemons. All in all, this feature should have better control, which is why this PR introduces the `--rpc-ssl-persistent` flag, which is OFF by default (for anonymity).

This PR also moves the key/cert storing logic to `net_ssl.cpp`, as opposed to `core_rpc_server.cpp` so it can be used elsewhere later (particularly in `wallet_rpc_server`) if it is deemed beneficial. Currently it is disabled, but can be enabled by passing `true` into the `ssl_authentication_t` constructor before calling `ssl_options_t::create_context`. 

Adopting these new changes may cause unexpected behavior for node operators who 1) run their daemon in unrestricted mode, 2) do not know about the new `--rpc-ssl-persistent` flag, and 3) expect that the RPC server will use the existing `rpc_ssl.crt` certificate. For this reason, I added a log statement which logs a warning in the event that the persistence flag is not given, but old `rpc_ssl.*` files are present.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2022-06-14T02:04:13+00:00
SSL keys/certs are now stored in the call to `epee::http_server_impl_base<core_rpc_server, connection_context>::init` above so this block isn't needed.

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-14T02:09:21+00:00
Now one can give specific paths for the private key and certificate. `core_rpc_server` still uses the current paths: `rpc_ssl.key` and `rpc_ssl.crt` in the data directory. 

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-14T02:10:41+00:00
Extra error logging which mirrors lines immediately above

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2022-06-14T02:02:14+00:00
