---
title: Add hardened systemd service file
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8838
author: ovhpse
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2023-05-05T15:39:25+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-05-07T08:20:13+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2023-05-07T08:20:08+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Hello,

I propose a new hardened systemd service file that can be used as a reference for those who want to harden their monerod service configuration. There is two goals here:
- Protect the nodes from a vulnerability in the monerod code
- Protect the Monero network from a vulnerability that would allow an attacker to temper with the monerod daemon

Tested since 3 months on Fedora 37 and 38.

This file is reserved for advanced users who are willing to invest the necessary time to make it work with their configuration and their distribution. Meanwhile it should work on recent distributions without much modification.

I have no doubts that other peoples will find further improvements as it was mainly made following the recommendation of the command `systemd-analyze security`

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2023-05-05T18:56:35+00:00
How does this particular setting reflect the stated goals? If the process consumes an unreasonable amount of memory the system may suffer instability but the process won't escape its sandbox or run any malicious code, and if you really want to bound resource consumption (as added goal) then CPU usage seems highly relevant.

## ovhpse | 2023-05-06T05:43:41+00:00
Hello,

Regarding `MemoryMax=8G`, this setting reflect the stated goal of protecting the node from the daemon.

If `monerod` is using too much memory to the point of filling the host RAM it will trigger an OOM kill. Depending of your distribution it might come from `systemd-oomd` or the kernel `oom_reaper`.

On a server running only the `monerod` daemon the OOM killer will usually make a good guess and kill the memory hungry process. Meanwhile we cannot rely on this as the OOM algorithm still make poor choices sometime. On my laptop I have seen GCC filling my RAM and the OOM choosing to kill my GNOME session on Fedora 37.

I think that many peoples want to run more than the `monerod` daemon on their node as volunteers tend to have hobby servers with multiples workloads. This setting should be adjusted to a value that the admin feel comfortable to allocate to `monerod` so that it will reach it before triggering the system OOM.

Let's not rely too much on the OOM killer to not kill a system critical process.

We can look at adding a CPU usage limit, or lower the process CPU priority. I have no doubts that this file can be improved. PID usage could be strictly limited too. 

[https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.resource-control.html](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.resource-control.html)


## iamamyth | 2023-05-06T16:26:45+00:00
> Let's not rely too much on the OOM killer to not kill a system critical process.

You're assuming monerod isn't considered critical by the user. I don't like the idea of embedding resource controls, which can vary quite a lot based on the user's goals and the program version, in a unit file. I suppose you could provide a comment-disabled, documented version of the line as an example, which fits the Linux convention for config files.

## jtgrassie | 2023-05-06T17:29:23+00:00
If someone thinks they need this, why wouldn't they install and configure it system wide?

## ovhpse | 2023-05-07T07:41:59+00:00
Ok I commented it and the other memory related options.

## ovhpse | 2023-05-07T07:46:06+00:00
I commented it as a controversial option.

# Action History
- Created by: ovhpse | 2023-05-05T15:39:25+00:00
- Closed at: 2023-05-07T08:20:08+00:00
