---
title: 'crypto: fix ge_p3_is_point_at_infinity()'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8052
author: UkoeHB
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-11-09T17:36:45+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-04-09T20:20:20+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2022-03-02T23:53:12+00:00'
merged_at: '2022-03-02T23:53:11+00:00'
---

# Original Description
### Summary
The function `ge_p3_is_point_at_infinity()` is naively evaluating field elements that haven't been reduced by the field order.

### Problem severity/impact
Low, this function is not currently used for anything important (only performance testing of some `multiexp` functions). In general, whether a crypto element is reduced mod its group/field order or not, is only important in byte-aware contexts such as byte-wise comparisons (as in this case), or hash inputs (`ge_p3` point representations are never hashed in Monero).

### Fix
Convert all field elements in the input `ge_p3` point to canonical representation (32-byte numbers reduced `mod q`) before evaluating them.

### Visibility
I added test cases with experimentally-found failures of the old function (these occurred in ~1 in 600k random `ge_p3` point representations of the identity element).

### Impact
Unfortunately, doing these conversions somewhat reduces the utility of `ge_p3_is_point_at_infinity()`, which was originally much more efficient than fully converting a `ge_p3` point representation to compressed-point representation with `ge_tobytes()` and doing a byte-wise comparison with the identity element. It is still more efficient, just not _as_ efficient.

### References
- [Paper that introduced extended Twisted Edwards coordinates (i.e. `ge_p3`)](https://eprint.iacr.org/2008/522)

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2021-11-09T21:10:05+00:00
The first and second loop don't need to be split, but I think it should be kept as separate loops if `fe_tobytes` for `Y` and `Z` is delayed until after the first loop. This should net some performance as typically the first loop should fail.

## vtnerd | 2021-11-09T21:31:59+00:00
`tests/unit_tests` seems like a more natural place, but I guess it doesn't really matter.

## vtnerd | 2021-11-09T23:27:19+00:00
Does `T` need to be evaluated at all? I think it can be skipped entirely in this function. Dropping the `fe_tobytes` for `T` should be a performance win.

The point at infinity should be `(x,y) = (0, 1)`, and `T` is defined as `(X*Y)/Z` (or `t=x*y`). So if `X` is `0`, then `T` must also be zero ... ?

## vtnerd | 2021-11-09T23:36:38+00:00
Is this a good opportunity to relabel this with `_vartime` at the end? This would follow the typical naming scheme for crypto functions.

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-09T23:52:03+00:00
`tests/crypto` seems to have the most similarities with the test I wanted to add. `tests/unit_tests/crypto.cpp` appears to be testing higher-level functions.


## UkoeHB | 2021-11-09T23:55:09+00:00
What you're saying sounds right, but I don't have the expertise to confidently agree. Hopefully we can get more opinions.

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-09T23:55:28+00:00
Sounds good to me!

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-10T00:01:58+00:00
I split them all up.

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-10T23:15:57+00:00
One comment/question I got was whether skipping this test would be safe if given an input not produced by a 'correct' method.

## dkabel-meister | 2022-01-24T17:29:50+00:00
My understanding of the coordinates used in the reference [https://eprint.iacr.org/2008/522](url) is that X=0 is a sufficient condition for T=0, since Z != 0 (by definition) and therefore Y is bounded from above.  If the ``point at infinity'' is defined as (X:Y:T:Z)=(0:1:0:1) within the equivalence class of $\lambda$-rescalings, then the definition T=XY/Z, Z\neq 0, implies that checking X=0 and Y/Z=1 is enough. In other words, X=0 and Y/Z=1 is a sufficient condition for the point to be a conformal representation of the identity in these coordinates.

## UkoeHB | 2022-01-24T21:29:28+00:00
> The point at infinity should be (x,y) = (0, 1), and T is defined as (X*Y)/Z (or t=x*y). So if X is 0, then T must also be zero ... ? @vtnerd 

`T = XY/Z` is only true for valid point representations. If an invalid point representation is passed in (where `Y/Z == 1`, `X == 0`, `T != 0`), then this function should _not_ label it as the point-at-infinity. Here is some algebra (using equation 5 from [the paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2008/522.pdf)) showing that adding an invalid point `P2` to a normal point `P1` will not produce `P1`: `P1 + P2 != P1`.

```
P1: {X1, Y1, T1, Z1}
P2 (invalid identity): {X2 = 0, Y2 != 0, T2 != 0, Z2 = Y2}

1. apply point-addition: P1 + P2 = P3
X3 = X1Y2*(Z1Y2 - dT1T2) = X1*(Z1Y2^2 - dT1T2Y2)
Y3 = Y1Y2*(Z1Y2 + dT1T2) = Y1*(Z1Y2^2 + dT1T2Y2)
T3 = Y1Y2*X1Y2           = X1Y1Y2^2
Z3 = (Z1Y2 - dT1T2)*(Z1Y2 + dT1T2) = (Z1Y2)^2 - (dT1T2)^2

2. multiply by 1/Y2
X3 = X1Y2*(Z1Y2 - dT1T2) = X1*(Z1Y2 - dT1T2)
Y3 = Y1Y2*(Z1Y2 + dT1T2) = Y1*(Z1Y2 + dT1T2)
T3 = Y1Y2*X1Y2           = X1Y1Y2
Z3 = (Z1Y2 - dT1T2)*(Z1Y2 + dT1T2) = (1/Y2) [ (Z1Y2)^2 - (dT1T2)^2 ]

3. check T-property
X3Y3 = X1Y1 [ (Z1Y2)^2 - (dT1T2)^2 ]
X3Y3/Z3 = X1Y1Y2 = T3

4. multiply by 1/Z1Y2
X3 = X1Y2*(Z1Y2 - dT1T2) = X1 - X1*dT1T2/Z1Y2
Y3 = Y1Y2*(Z1Y2 + dT1T2) = Y1 + Y1*dT1T2/Z1Y2
T3 = Y1Y2*X1Y2           = X1Y1/Z1
Z3 = (Z1Y2 - dT1T2)*(Z1Y2 + dT1T2) = Z1 - (dT1T2)^2/Z1Y2^2

If T2 == 0, then all the junk disappears and P3 == P1 as expected. Can you make the junk go away when T2 != 0?
```

Big thanks to @dkabel-meister for discussing this with me.

## vtnerd | 2022-01-25T02:17:26+00:00
This (as mentioned in your reply to me) seems rather pessimistic, but it doesn't hurt things much.

## vtnerd | 2022-01-25T02:23:34+00:00
Only two `char[32]` buffers are needed in this function, but I don't see any reason to block the patch for that -

# Action History
- Created by: UkoeHB | 2021-11-09T17:36:45+00:00
- Merged at: 2022-03-02T23:53:11+00:00
