---
title: Make it possible to exit cli wallet when locked
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8754
author: dan1338
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2023-03-01T22:13:39+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-03-30T14:00:04+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
### Fixes the 4 year old issue #6192
### This is a significant UX hindrance and should have been fixed long ago.

I attempted to find the root cause for segfault that happens if we just `w.stop()` in the handler but it appears to happen in the libstdc++ at_exit handlers resulted from corrupted state and further investigation with valgrind shows multiple data races which I don't see a way of solving.

It might not be an "ideal" solution but it's definitely due.

From what I gathered the architecture around simplewallet cli is poor and mostly patchworked with threading primitives.
The terminal is being read asynchronously from many places, such as "contrib/epee/include/console_handler.h" and "src/common/password.cpp", maybe if it was designed around a main synchronous thread reading stdin it would've been easier to fix but without a rewrite this will have to suffice.

I believe this solution to be the easiest, most painless way to exit the wallet after it inevitably locks itself.
Retires #7722 as well

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2023-03-02T00:38:34+00:00
Can you add a comment explaining the rationale for calling `deinit` and `_exit` here in addition to stop (in particular that it wasn't a UX design choice so much as a choice of necessity)? It doesn't have to be nearly as detailed as the PR description, but would probably help anyone trying to refactor in the input handling to allow a more graceful exit.

# Action History
- Created by: dan1338 | 2023-03-01T22:13:39+00:00
