---
title: '[seraphis] crypto: miscellaneous updates'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8663
author: UkoeHB
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-12-02T00:02:01+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-01-14T02:27:41+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2023-01-11T16:46:47+00:00'
merged_at: '2023-01-11T16:46:47+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This is a PR in my 'upstreaming seraphis_lib project', the changes here are not used anywhere yet.

- Make some `crypto-ops.c` static methods public. These will be used in PR #8662 for recomputing the main ed25519 generator.
- Allow sorting of key images.
- Add `to_bytes()` methods for converting `ec_point` and `ec_scalar` to unsigned char pointers. These methods are SUPER helpful when doing anything with the `sc_*` methods. Note that there is a variant of this in `device_default.cpp`.
- Rename `rct::ecdhHash()` to `rct::genAmountEncodingFactor()` and make it public.

# Discussion History
## SChernykh | 2022-12-02T06:32:49+00:00
Why was it added here? `crypto-ops.c` already includes it before `crypto-ops.h`

## SChernykh | 2022-12-02T11:25:15+00:00
It makes sense then to remove `#include <stdint.h>` from `crypto-ops.c`

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-02T15:08:41+00:00
This cleans up static analyzer errors and lets you include `crypto-ops.h` without pre-including `stdint.h`.

If you [google transitive includes](https://www.google.com/search?client=firefox-b-1-d&q=transitive+includes) you don't find anyone recommending they be used. Here is the somewhat authoritative [cpp core guideline](https://isocpp.github.io/CppCoreGuidelines/CppCoreGuidelines#Rs-implicit).

## jeffro256 | 2022-12-07T06:36:57+00:00
Looks good all around, but just personal preference:
```suggestion
  inline bool operator>(const key_image &p1, const key_image &p2) { return memcmp(&p1, &p2, sizeof(key_image)) > 0; }
```
There's a 90% chance this will get optimized out by the compiler, but since this is gonna likely take place many, many times a second , it might be better to write it out explicitly. 

## jeffro256 | 2022-12-07T06:38:47+00:00
Since this is in an important file, I'd leave a more descriptive comment here, more or less what you put in the post, explaining why this needs to be exposed in this header file.

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-07T17:16:24+00:00
The other operator is `inline`. If this is not inlined then idk what to say - compilers must be trash.

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-07T17:42:35+00:00
Oh looks like these are leftovers I'm not actually using. Will remove

## vtnerd | 2022-12-18T03:04:50+00:00
These should be dropped in favor of `epee::to_byte_span()` usage. Or just redirect to that function and return a `span` here, although I don't see a purpose of re-creating those existing functions.

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-18T16:44:01+00:00
If I use the span stuff directly, then:
```
sc_add(to_bytes(a), to_bytes(b), to_bytes(c));  //old
sc_add(epee::as_mut_byte_span(a).data(), epee::as_byte_span(b).data(), epee::as_byte_span(c).data());  //new
```

Using a `span` internally means you have to construct a `span` every time `to_bytes` is called, which is not ideal for one of the main use cases - high performance crypto algorithms.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-18T18:55:21+00:00
This comment is old, but also the `inline` keyword is needed here or linker errors could occur.

Edit: Ignore - this wasn't part of the discussion. But this should definitely be inlined if the other function is inlined.  

## vtnerd | 2022-12-18T18:57:33+00:00
The compiler should optimize away all references to the span if only the pointer is used. This is pretty basic stuff for the compiler actually.

I wasn't aware of the context though - these existing functions take a pointer with no other information anyway. My frustration with adding these functions is the the temptation to use these in non-crypto related functions. I guess reviewers will have to catch this.

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-18T19:02:14+00:00
It's hard for me to imagine a case where `to_bytes()` would be used for anything other than exposing a raw pointer to C-style crypto functions. Right now I have used it ~200 times in `seraphis_lib` for only crypto stuff.

## jeffro256 | 2022-12-31T06:11:53+00:00
I think I fall on the side of @UkoeHB here. Many of the underlying C crypto functions already use "unsafe" pointers insofar as the size of the area passed is implied by the contract of the function, not enforced at compile-time or runtime. Unless we want to rewrite these functions, using `epee::span` would just add an unused wrapper on top of a pointer which may or may not get optimized out by the compiler. 

# Action History
- Created by: UkoeHB | 2022-12-02T00:02:01+00:00
- Merged at: 2023-01-11T16:46:47+00:00
