---
title: 'wallet2, RPC: Optimize RPC calls for periodic refresh from 3 down to 1 call'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8076
author: rbrunner7
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-11-21T17:05:32+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-03-22T21:03:16+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2023-03-18T22:00:40+00:00'
merged_at: '2023-03-18T22:00:40+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This PR improves/optimizes wallet refresh, especially keeping a wallet synced continuously, by reducing the number of RPC calls to the daemon that `wallet2` needs to issue periodically from 3 down to 1. This thus implements the Monero issue https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/7571, duplicated as the Haveno issue https://github.com/haveno-dex/haveno/issues/110.

To achieve this the daemon RPC call `getblocks.bin` can now optionally give back info about the tx pool that the wallet uses for early detection of incoming payments and tracking whether transaction sending was successful. The extension to this call works in an incremental way: It does not simply return all the transactions that are currently in the pool, but a list of the transactions that entered the pool since the last call, plus a list of the ids of all transactions that were removed from the pool since that time.

The optimization is fully downward-compatible: `wallet2` handles the case that it requests pool info through `getblocks.bin` but does not get it because the daemon does not contain the code of this PR yet.

There are other situations where the call is not able to give back pool info and a fallback is necessary: Producing the increments is based on data that the tx pool keeps in RAM and which is therefore lost should the daemon get restarted, and after restart it will take some minutes until it can again serve clients that may ask something like "give me what happened in the tool since 2 minutes ago, if possible".

`simplewallet` currently refreshes with an average interval of 90 seconds and will profit from the incremental system occasionally, if it queries the pool more than once in the time between two blocks, and the second query does not return all the transactions in the pool but only new ones. (If a new block happened between two calls it does not help much because the pool transactions will all be different of course.)

With this PR shorter average refresh intervals would be possible if wanted for `simplewallet` with hardly any increase of the amount of data transferred.

`monero-wallet-rpc` seems to do auto-refresh with a surprisingly low default interval of 20 seconds and should therefore profit more from the incremental system.

If you test this code on testnet be aware that incremental refresh only starts after the daemon has seen at least 1 added and 1 removed transactions. Because there are so few transactions happening on testnet you will probably have to make a single transaction yourself to get things going.


# Discussion History
## elibroftw | 2021-11-21T21:52:00+00:00
Keeping this here in case you need it.
```cpp
#include <chrono>

std::chrono::time_point<std::chrono::system_clock> now = std::chrono::system_clock::now();
auto duration = now.time_since_epoch();
// 64bit; microseconds since epoch
long long daemon_time = std::chrono::duration_cast<std::chrono::microseconds>(duration).count();
```

## rbrunner7 | 2021-11-22T05:59:46+00:00
I was indeed thinking about switching to more "modern" time and clock functions but then saw that the data types in the RPC interface all simply use `time_t`, and I wasn't even sure whether the binary and JSON serialization code that Monero uses could handle those "chrono" types. So I decided to stick with good old `time_t` and also directly use the `time` function.

## elibroftw | 2021-11-22T06:02:19+00:00
Quotations is definitely the way to go when it takes 3 long lines to do something Python can do in one without complications 😂.

## rbrunner7 | 2021-11-22T06:26:27+00:00
And 5 minutes after writing the above I learned that `time_t` is **also** problematic in the RPC interface and **not** previously used already as I believed. The way to go at least for the interface type definitions is `uint64_t` ...

## glazedtorus | 2021-11-28T20:48:35+00:00
Is there a specific reason why multimap is used over unordered multimap to store the txs? I thought unordered multimaps were faster and easier to build around?

## rbrunner7 | 2021-11-28T21:25:24+00:00
Well, ordering the hashes by time is the whole purpose of those maps. Unordered maps might be faster, but would not do the job ...

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-12-13T18:37:13+00:00
Why not ? Should it not be the whole list in that case ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-12-13T18:37:33+00:00
Why ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-12-13T18:38:58+00:00
That could use std::move, the structure is fairly complex

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-12-13T18:44:36+00:00
Integer underflow here

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-12-13T18:46:06+00:00
uint64_t

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-12-13T18:47:34+00:00
std::move

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-12-13T18:50:12+00:00
The cost system is intended to early out with little work if there isn't enough credit balance. Some of the wok in the loop above can be defered till after checking for credit balance.

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-12-13T18:50:52+00:00
const ref

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-12-13T18:52:45+00:00
Good idea, maybe just fail for time invervals above some threshold so (1) you don't do the work and (2) the client knows they have to get the whole set

## rbrunner7 | 2021-12-19T15:29:49+00:00
`wallet2` now implements to update methods based on transaction pool: the "old" one where it actively gets select pool transactions by separate calls and the "new" incremental one. I could return the whole list of pool txs here easily, but to process them higher up in `wallet2`this would make a third update method necessary, one where the complete list of pool txs comes in through the "get blocks" call.

(Incremental is not possible because we lack the removed txs, and as long as not all daemons around support giving back incremental info we can's simply drop the "old" method.)

## rbrunner7 | 2021-12-19T15:33:48+00:00
Mainly because I could not come up with a scenario where merely seing the ids of sensitive txs whithout getting to know that they are sensitive and of course without any way to get at their full info should be problematic.

But it's possible I did not think far enough and should err on the side of caution. To be able to select, I would have to switch the map of removed txs from simple tx id entries to pairs tx id + sensitive boolen.

## rbrunner7 | 2021-12-26T09:18:49+00:00
Done.

## rbrunner7 | 2021-12-26T09:18:57+00:00
Done.

## rbrunner7 | 2021-12-26T09:19:07+00:00
Done.

## rbrunner7 | 2021-12-26T09:19:16+00:00
Done.

## rbrunner7 | 2021-12-26T09:19:24+00:00
Done.

## rbrunner7 | 2021-12-26T09:19:37+00:00
Done.

## rbrunner7 | 2021-12-26T09:20:43+00:00
Not sure how you mean that. In any case, there is a test very early on whether the incremental info goes back far enough in time, and if not no work is done but just returned that there is no incremental info available.

## j-berman | 2022-02-18T13:26:03+00:00
Why not *only* do this trip to the daemon *after* `get_blocks`, and only if `get_blocks` responds with `includes_pool_info` set to false? Not seeing why this extra trip to the daemon is necessary on first connection given the update to `get_blocks`, am I missin something

## j-berman | 2022-02-18T13:26:41+00:00
Aka just make this an else?

## j-berman | 2022-02-20T00:58:09+00:00
Small suggestion: consider replacing this section with a call to `remove_obsolete_txs(res.removed_pool_txids, remove_if_found)`, and use the `remove_if_found` boolean to guide the logic of [this line](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/9aab19f349433687c7aaf2c1cbc5751e5912c0aa/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L2998) (e.g. `if ((remove_if_found && found) || (!remove_if_found && !found))`. Think it's easier to recognize the difference between the 2, plus don't need the extra code

## j-berman | 2022-02-20T01:18:16+00:00
Would also be sweet to pull this out into a common function shared `with update_pool_state`

## j-berman | 2022-02-20T01:25:27+00:00
Throwing here, instead of [log + continue] seems a little aggressive, e.g. see `update_pool_state`: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/9aab19f349433687c7aaf2c1cbc5751e5912c0aa/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L3208


## j-berman | 2022-02-20T08:26:23+00:00
and this always true?

## j-berman | 2022-02-20T08:33:07+00:00
Seems if a sensitive tx was never included in the `added_tx` array, then included in `removed_txs`, it could give indication it was sensitive?

## rbrunner7 | 2022-02-20T13:48:08+00:00
Not quite sure how you mean that.

You can't get completely rid of updating the pool at least once in the "conventional", non-incremental way. You have to call `update_pool_state` at least once.

One problem is that in order to get incremental info from the daemon you must set `COMMAND_RPC_GET_BLOCKS_FAST::request_t::pool_info_since` to a suitable value. If you never queried the daemon before you have no way to know what you should set this to, as the only valid source for these values is the daemon itself.

You have to ask the daemon at least once for "Give me everything you have" before you can start to work with increments.

If you ask why I have now two places in the code where I call `update_pool_state` and not only one, **after** the call to `get_blocks`: Well, in the "old" code `update_pool_state` comes **before** `get_blocks`, and I said to myself, let us keep that order for the normal cases. Probably it does not matter, but who knows, and it's cheap to continue to call it first like it was before.

(The second call to `update_pool_state` after `get_blocks` only gets called in special circumstances, e.g. after a daemon restart between two of our calls which lead to loss of the in-memory info in the daemon.)

## rbrunner7 | 2022-02-20T13:52:01+00:00
I think this clears up with the answer to your previous question: If we keep the `update_pool_state` call at the start of the method there is the case of no need to call it (again) after `get_blocks` and thus a need for an `else if`.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-02-20T14:13:54+00:00
Does not look easy, as the elements in the vector to check whether it contains the tx are not of the same type in the two cases: In the first case, it's a vector of simple hashes, in the second case a vector of `pool_tx_info`. What would be the type for the vector of the new method with the common code?

## rbrunner7 | 2022-02-20T14:21:58+00:00
Hmm, I saw that there is a total of 6 calls to `cryptonote::parse_and_validate_tx_from_blob` in all of `wallet2`, where 5 of them do throw a wallet exception if the tx blob does not parse and validate, and only 1 where it's simply reported and processing continues, so almost seems to me the case you digged up is somewhat in need of adjustment :)

## rbrunner7 | 2022-02-20T14:49:08+00:00
Not a separate issue, connected with other questions

## rbrunner7 | 2022-02-20T15:21:25+00:00
Yeah, if some client that is not allowed to see sensitive txs goes to the lengths of starting to bookkeep about txs reported as added and removed and calculates intersections or similar they will probably find out "This deleted tx here is / was sensitive". Probably without a way to request info about it afterwards. So the problem is a little bit worse than I thought.

Anyway, what does your gut feeling advice you: Do we close that loophole, for peace of mind? I would be ready, but need a little push :)

## rbrunner7 | 2022-02-20T15:23:21+00:00
Good idea. A little "but": If we start to track the "sensitivity" of deleted transactions the vector to store them won't simply be "vector of hashes" anymore and probably could not get handed to this method anymore.

## j-berman | 2022-02-21T04:14:04+00:00
I vote close it! :D but before closing, let's wrap up [this discussion](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8076#issuecomment-1046455649) first. Planning to re-review

## rbrunner7 | 2022-03-18T12:34:23+00:00
Alright, I close this, as still no scenario has materialized where the mere ids of sensitive txs seem exploitable in some way.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-03-18T14:39:52+00:00
Implemented as proposed.

## j-berman | 2022-04-20T02:02:04+00:00
I disagree with the decision not to return the whole list in this case. It introduces hard-to-reason through edge cases that a caller of this endpoint needs to know to handle (fall back to [make the additional calls to the daemon the "old" way of doing things](https://github.com/rbrunner7/monero/blob/5f77e4b1268b0d262521fb4cc5879ea2cc137912/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L2724-L2726)). I expect that wallet2 won't be the only caller of this endpoint, and so it shouldn't be designed in a way that introduces idiosyncrasies that wallet2 handles in a sub-optimal way. Ideally we get rid of the "old" way altogether from the client thanks to the existence of this endpoint, not introduce scenarios that are difficult to see where the client needs to fall back to the old method making multiple trips to the daemon in order to handle safely.

If the daemon isn't able to respond with incremental info, I think it should fall back to responding with the entire pool, and the client should be able to handle that by updating its local list of pool tx's with that response. Any caller of the endpoint should also be able to handle this case smoothly (daemon with 0 tx's in its pool goes offline, comes back online, client makes the request to the daemon).

By returning all tx's in the pool over this endpoint, you can also remove [this excessive call to the daemon on first connection](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8076#discussion_r809996070), which I think is a pretty significant drawback to this PR as is. Reducing trips to the daemon is the main goal of this PR, and the first connection is by far the most important one because it most materially impacts UX.

____

It's also generally hard to reason through the existence of 2 tracking variables that are there to essentially solve the same thing: `m_added_txs_start_time` AND `m_removed_txs_start_time`. I think there is room to consolidate what these 2 separate variables are doing into a single variable. If you can manage to simplify the approach along these lines, I think it would make reviewing this code for safety issues a lot easier


## j-berman | 2022-04-20T02:05:25+00:00
If someone can tell that a tx was sensitive, it could leak additional info that can be used to help determine that the tx originated from *that* node in particular (the boolean is an indicator the tx is in the stem phase of Dandelion++, or generally that the tx passed through this node but this node doesn't know that the rest of the network knows about it yet). By revealing that a tx is sensitive to other clients connected to that node, it could therefore be a vector to reduce the effectiveness of Dandelion++ (which is specifically intended to hide where a tx originates). This notion of hiding "sensitive" tx's was a big part of one of @vtnerd 's Dandelion++ PR's (#5965). This comment discusses it in a bit more detail too: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5965#discussion_r351098726. Also seemingly related: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/5944#issuecomment-536765914

I definitely think this is a loophole worth closing (that's what I meant by "close" in my comment above). Generally my view is that it's always best to err on the side of caution with something like this

## rbrunner7 | 2022-04-20T05:48:01+00:00
These are all very reasonable arguments, but I have a question before I start to implement this:

This is a breaking change. A "new" `wallet2` won't be able any more to talk to an "old" daemon. Obviously, the old daemon won't understand the request to give back any pool data together with block data and will give back nothing. If we remove the "old" method of updating the pool it's game over at this point already, and `wallet2` will have to give back an error that it can't use that daemon and disconnect.

I was working under the assumption that this approach does **not** fly. I assumed that introducing such a radical breaking change is unacceptable, and that I **have** to keep `wallet2` able to work with "old" daemons, at least for the time being. I therefore saw keeping two different update systems as unfortunate collateral damage, so to say.

What's your opinion on this? Do you vote for this breaking change?

Of course this question is connected with the hardfork. If it's guaranteed that this PR will make it into the new release, a breaking change is basically nothing to fear: Obviously there can't be any "old" daemons around anymore in this case. But if it misses the hardfork - after all so far nobody assumes this to be an essential part of the hardfork release in this sense yet - it will be in a very difficult situation.

## j-berman | 2022-04-20T08:07:43+00:00
I think you were right to implement it with that assumption! I don't think what I'm suggesting necessitates a breaking change, but maybe I'm missing something.

When the client sets `include_pool_info` to true (which it should be able to do on the first request even if talking to an old daemon) and the client is talking to a new daemon that can see that this is true, I think the daemon should respond with the pool info. I don't think the new daemon should expect that a new client has a fallback to the old logic that correctly handles hard-to-see edge cases.

I think you're right that the client should *still* have fallback logic to handle the circumstance where it is talking to an old daemon (when the daemon response does not include pool info), at least until *after* there is a hard fork with this change included (hopefully this one). Ideally the updated endpoint is implemented in a way that does not require changes to the endpoint's behavior in the future, and we could theoretically remove the old logic from the client *after* we're certain daemons have all updated. Upon re-reading, I was definitely unclear on this

## rbrunner7 | 2022-04-20T08:26:58+00:00
Thanks for the clarification. That's reassuring.

Fact remains that if the daemon gives back the whole pool it's **not** an increment, and I will go through the code carefully to see how many changes would really be needed to process this "non-increment" because so far things are programmed under the assumption that it's in fact an increment.

Usually it's a good idea to be very careful with such semantics. I compare this with a call that sometimes gives back a point in time and sometimes a duration since some known point back in time, and you for sure can't treat both the same way, if you know what I mean.

But maybe the needed changes are smaller than I fear, maybe you can indeed treat the whole pool more or less like an especially large increment and most things will just turn out right.

I will probably start to work on this during the coming weekend.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-04-25T08:23:27+00:00
Thanks for the detailed arguments. I implemented proper filtering of txs reported as removed by "sensitivity" now i.e. a client now allowed to see any sensitive tx won't see any reported as removed either. This will be part of the next forced update.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-04-27T06:41:07+00:00
@j-berman argued:

> It's also generally hard to reason through the existence of 2 tracking variables that are there to essentially solve the same thing: m_added_txs_start_time AND m_removed_txs_start_time.

I was just going to consolidate into 1 variable when I saw a reason to keep those two:

The list of txs deleted from pool never shrinks in a "natural" way, just more and more entries get added over time. To prevent that list from becoming too big, there is a mechanism to restrict its size, check method `tx_memory_pool::track_removed_tx`. As soon as elements are deleted from the list, the list of added txs and the list of deleted txs don't go back anymore to the same point in time.

Of course it would be possible to adjust a single variable accordingly after deleting in a correct way, but I somehow doubt whether that would be easier to understand than having two variables.

Personally I lean towards keeping two, because now each of the two has a crystal-clear semantic, and I only have to consider both in a single place, when deciding whether the lists go back as far as a particular clients needs them, but if you see it differently, I am ready to modify.

What do you think?

## rbrunner7 | 2022-04-27T09:01:27+00:00
@j-berman commented:

> I disagree with the decision not to return the whole list in this case.

You were right to disagree and insist on improvement. I recognized that I had looked at the capabilities of that RPC call in the much too narrow context of only this use case, among other things. It makes perfect sense to return the whole pool if for whatever reason returning incremental info is not possible, and teach `wallet2` to update its internal data from that.

This is fully implemented now.

The complexity of the code went up another notch, because as feared updating from the whole pool returned by the `getblocks` RPC call is technically **not** identical to the "old" method, but it's not too bad, and it's worth it because now already the initial fetching of pool info immediately after opening a wallet can profit from the reduction of RPC calls. 


## j-berman | 2022-05-03T01:24:15+00:00
Slight suggestion to potentially make this if logic easier to read, your call to ignore this suggestion, but how bout condensing to just:

```
incremental = false;
if (start_time > m_added_txs_start_time && start_time > m_removed_txs_start_time
    && m_added_txs_start_time != (time_t)0 && m_removed_txs_start_time != (time_t)0)
{
    incremental = true;
}
```

## j-berman | 2022-05-03T01:29:42+00:00
Hmm, why is this lock scoped like this; why not grab this lock at the scope inside `if (!incremental)`?

`get_transaction_info` reclaims the lock; it seems more sensible to hold the lock at the higher scope and not have to reason through a potential race condition because of inconsistent tx pool <-> blockchain state

## j-berman | 2022-05-04T07:23:30+00:00
> Personally I lean towards keeping two, because now each of the two has a crystal-clear semantic, and I only have to consider both in a single place, when deciding whether the lists go back as far as a particular clients needs them

SGTM :)

> This is fully implemented now.

I think it's looking good structurally

## j-berman | 2022-05-05T06:26:14+00:00
When you submit a tx to a node or when a tx gets propagated through a node, the tx starts out in the stem phase and gets inserted here. When the tx reaches the broadcasted/fluff state, it re-inserts a duplicate hash but later time here.

This makes it fairly trivial to see that a tx was sensitive (and therefore weaken dandelion++):
1. client A submits tx to daemon
2. daemon inserts to `m_added_txs_by_time` at time t0
3. tx broadcasts successfully and enters the fluff phase (tx is no longer sensitive)
4. daemon re-inserts to `m_added_txs_by_time` at time t1
5. malicious client B requests all incremental pool tx's with a `start_time` before t0; daemon responds with 2 entries for the tx since the tx is no longer sensitive

Malicious client B knows that the tx must have been propagated through the node, because it shows up as a duplicate.

Also, the duplicate entry won't get removed later in `remove_tx_from_transient_lists`, which does not seem ideal. Leaving the extra txid hanging around in `m_added_txs_by_time` leaves me uneasy that the vector would still be open or accidentally get missed later on.

I'm thinking the move is to have another map tracking a txid's associated time like you proposed in the other comment:

```
    // Unfortunately we don't have a fast way to find the tx in 'm_added_txs_by_time' by txid; a second
    // map <txid, time> would help but we still would have to scan all entries with the same time;
```

If it's in that map, then erase the entry here, and re-add it with the latest time. There would be no duplicates this way. Another plus side (as you mention) is that it can alleviate some efficiency concerns over in `remove_tx_from_transient_lists`.

Alternative approach: you could keep track of sensitivity with a boolean here like you do for removed, allow duplicate hashes in `m_added_txs_by_time`, and when removing later, iterate over every single `m_added_txs_by_time` and remove matching txid's. Aka remove the break. Probably safer this way, but less performant.

Thoughts?

## j-berman | 2022-05-05T06:54:41+00:00
It's possible for a duplicate to be added here, because `m_added_txs_by_time` can have the same txid added twice as noted in the other comment, which is a leak on sensitive txs and messes up the API. See other comment "When you submit a tx to a node..."

## j-berman | 2022-05-06T05:54:07+00:00
I encountered a one-off case I haven't been able to repro yet where it *didn't* re-insert the tx into the transient list upon broadcast, and in that case, even with the above proposed approaches, there would still be a vector to determine sensitive tx's (and I believe there would be a bug in that case: seems it would be possible for incremental polling to miss the tx was added to the pool). Still investigating this

## rbrunner7 | 2022-05-06T08:21:31+00:00
It's certainly a matter of taste to a certain extent, but I have some difficulties to read conditions with many terms; furthermore, the more "elaborate" code results in more places to put comments; thus I prefer to leave my code as it is.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-05-06T08:33:11+00:00
I see your point of potential divergences by not locking over the whole process, but I am not sure what you propose.

In a first version of the code I had the `get_transaction_info` call directly in the anonymous method for `for_all_txpool_txes`, and that gave errors with LMDB complaining with some mysterious (to me) error about transactions nested in a wrong way somehow. Locking only for `for_all_txpool_txes` and then calling `for_all_txpool_txes` outside solved the problem.

If you propose to change the locking behaviour of `get_transaction_info` to be able to lock over the whole process here: I am not sure how simple that will get because the call is used in other places as well.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-05-06T08:49:48+00:00
> I encountered a one-off case I haven't been able to repro yet 

Alright, I wait what result your investigation will bring.

> Alternative approach: you could keep track of sensitivity with a boolean here like you do for removed, allow duplicate hashes in m_added_txs_by_time, and when removing later, iterate over every single m_added_txs_by_time and remove matching txid's. Aka remove the break. Probably safer this way, but less performant.

I do already allow duplicates hashes in `m_added_txs_by_time`, don't I? And always scanning over the whole array instead of breaking as soon as I find the first entry with correct id to remove would be trivial, and I ask what an additional sensitivity boolean would help or why it would be even needed.

And concerning perfomance I ask myself anyway whether we worry too much ...


## j-berman | 2022-05-06T09:23:42+00:00
Think you should also update `m_removed_txs_start_time` to the latest tx removed like you do in the else. Makes sure the client won't miss removed txs in the worst case if the client includes a start time earlier than that.

## j-berman | 2022-05-06T09:42:52+00:00
I was proposing basically just dropping the surrounding {} here

Looking again, why not drop the surrounding {} and *also* move `CRITICAL_REGION_LOCAL1(m_blockchain)` all the way up to the line below `CRITICAL_REGION_LOCAL(m_transactions_lock)`?

## j-berman | 2022-05-10T07:58:56+00:00
Doesn't look like the second boolean is used, right?

## j-berman | 2022-05-10T08:28:53+00:00
Status update on the investigation...

I can repro the case where duplicates aren't re-inserted into the transient list. When submitting txs over the clearnet, and my node is in the "fluff" epoch of Dandelion++ (at any given time, a node has a [1/5 chance](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/9a124f681119855949f6406ecd69c2ad91da9770/src/cryptonote_protocol/levin_notify.cpp#L701) of being in the "fluff" epoch), the node will by default set the pool tx to the "fluff" state without waiting to hear back from another node after relaying [thanks to this](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/9a124f681119855949f6406ecd69c2ad91da9770/src/cryptonote_protocol/levin_notify.cpp#L573).

Then, because the tx is in the pool in the "fluff" state already, once it hears back from another node that the tx has been broadcasted successfully, it won't attempt to re-add the tx into the pool because [this is true](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/67e5ca9ad6f1c861ad315476a88f9d36c38a0abb/src/cryptonote_core/cryptonote_core.cpp#L1036) ([this comes back as true](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/67e5ca9ad6f1c861ad315476a88f9d36c38a0abb/src/blockchain_db/blockchain_db.cpp#L70-L71) for `relay_category::legacy`). Thus, it doesn't re-insert into the pool/transient list in this case, unlike the other cases I tested (clearnet + stem epoch, tor + fluff epoch, tor + stem epoch all inserted duplicates into the transient list).

> I do already allow duplicates hashes in m_added_txs_by_time, don't I?

Yep, I was saying keeping it like that still seemed like an option along with those other changes

> And I ask what an additional sensitivity boolean would help or why it would be even needed.

A sensitivity boolean here isn't the only way to accomplish the goal (of avoiding revealing sensitive txs over the incremental RPC endpoint), but the point is that when returning the added pool tx's over the incremental RPC endpoint, we need to make sure not to reveal that a tx *was* sensitive in the past, even if a client includes a `pool_info_since` earlier than the first duplicate. Revealing a tx *was* sensitive seems close-to-but-not-quite-as-bad as revealing a tx is sensitive at the time that it is sensitive. Returning a duplicate reveals a tx *was* sensitive, so there needs to be a way to avoid doing that in all cases. Adding a `sensitive` boolean here seems like one way (only return the non-sensitive entries), but considering this case of the fluff epoch above, it seems pretty challenging to do safely.

Probably easier (and probably what you were thinking I'd guess): right in [this spot](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8076/files#r865601662), keep track of inserted tx's being sure not to return duplicates. ~~Ideally the txs are also returned sorted by `meta.receive_time`.~~ (EDIT: honestly, I would say the move might just be to shuffle the order of txs returned when the endpoint isn't supposed to allow sensitives, both in this endpoint and in `on_get_transaction_pool_hashes`; otherwise data may be leaking about exactly when a tx is received -- and thus, prior sensitivity state -- from race conditions that are difficult to pinpoint..)

## j-berman | 2022-05-10T10:09:39+00:00
Sorry for the double comment -- I believe the PR as is and the solution I described above is also vulnerable to the following race condition when a clearnet daemon is in the "fluff" epoch:

1. Client submits tx
2. At time t0, daemon adds it to pool with `relay_method::local` and inserts into `m_added_txs_by_time`
3. At time t1, client requests pool info from before time t0; daemon doesn't respond with tx because it's sensitive
4. At time t2, daemon updates pool tx to no longer be sensitive
5. Client requests pool info since t1; daemon does NOT include tx, since it was added before t1

Thus, the daemon would never return the tx via the incremental endpoint. I believe this would reveal definitively that the tx was submitted through the daemon if it can be triggered successfully, because only a tx submitted through the node while in the "fluff" epoch appears to have this potential for being unquery-able via the incremental endpoint. It's also technically possible for a normal user to never see that their tx broadcasts successfully because of this until the tx is included in a block.

I believe a solution for this is to make sure that once the tx reaches the broadcasted state in the pool, at that point it definitely gets (re)-inserted into `m_added_txs_by_time` with a later time. Grep for `update_txpool_tx` to see more code paths where this can happen.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-05-11T17:39:24+00:00
Maybe we talk past each other somewhat here:

`get_transaction_info` as it is now includes this at the start:

    CRITICAL_REGION_LOCAL(m_transactions_lock);
    CRITICAL_REGION_LOCAL1(m_blockchain);

I strongly suspect that you can't nest those "critical reasons". When I did in a slightly different way that you propose I got quite mysterious-sounding errors about LMDB transactions nested in a wrong way somehow, as already mentioned. With your proposal and an unmodified `get_transaction_info` nesting would occur, and the errors would probably return.

Of course we could make a second private version of `get_transaction_info` without the locking to use it here and enable us to lock over the whole method execution. Do you think the effort would be worth it?

## rbrunner7 | 2022-05-11T17:54:22+00:00
Good catch of an oversight on my part. Corrected.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-05-11T18:10:32+00:00
Looks like you are right, and it wasn't already used before I started to modify, that boolean must have lost its use a long time ago already.

I am inclined to let it stand nevertheless, to have at least some lines of the "old" cold still standing to give git something to "sync on" when evaluating and showing differences; do you see what I mean? It's already quite difficult to see how I transformed old into new, and if I simplify this now it only gets worse.

But your opinion may differ?

## rbrunner7 | 2022-05-11T18:39:18+00:00
I confess that unfortunately this goes over my head now, mostly because I don't know much about Dandelion++ and its implementation in the Monero code base. I think I am unable to code the proper solution all on my own, and you will have to closely guide me to a solution in code.

I think I basically understand what you say here:

> I believe a solution for this is to make sure that once the tx reaches the broadcasted state in the pool, at that point it definitely gets (re)-inserted into m_added_txs_by_time with a later time. Grep for update_txpool_tx to see more code paths where this can happen.

You talk of a move, right? The old tx with its old time (which was sensitive when it got inserted) gets deleted, and re-inserted with the time of the call to `update_pool_tx`?

And do you think that if this is done properly it's the definite solution to all the problems that you unearthed here regarding Dandelion++ versus cache, leaks, race conditions and everything? Or in other words, if we ship around this cliff as well, the PR is ready?

If yes, which state transition or state transitions done with the help of the `update_txpool_tx` exactly will trigger the move / re-insert?

Or maybe it's as simple as making sure there are no duplicates and always only keep the most recent entry for the same tx id? Because we don't see any unproblematic cases with the tx present twice in the map?

## j-berman | 2022-05-11T18:48:19+00:00
I meant move this `CRITICAL_REGION_LOCAL1(m_blockchain)` to the top of `get_pool_info`

EDIT: should be fine because the mutex is reentrant

## rbrunner7 | 2022-05-11T19:02:30+00:00
Yes, I already understood your proposal as such, but I am afraid I did not yet manage to get accross what's the problem with that :)

With that we will have a lock that is active during the whole execution of the `get_pool_info` method, right? The look will go away when its destructor gets called invisibly at the very end of the method, so to say.

That means that when the method makes calls to `get_transaction_info` sooner or later, the lock will be active - of course. Now, what do you see if you switch over to the code of `get_transaction_info`? Right, that method **also** sets a lock, the same type of lock if I am not gravely mistaken.

I stronlgy suspect such "nesting" of locks does **not** work. When I tried to nest (in a slightly different way), I got LMDB errors about transactions not properly nested.

See what I mean?

The solution is not too hard, however, seems to it simply needs two versions of `get_transaction_info`, one without any locks (can be private, for use by `get_pool_info`) and a second, public one that sets locks and then also calls the private one for the real work.

My question to you was: Do you thing the problem at hand is important enough to make that modification? I guess the answer is "yes" ...

## j-berman | 2022-05-11T19:33:26+00:00
It should work fine because the underlying mutex is reentrant (I recently realized this too), and I would say it's worth it because it protects against races/inconsistent states that will be difficult to track and it's a pretty easy change

## j-berman | 2022-05-11T20:07:05+00:00
Your call :) fine for a separate future PR

## rbrunner7 | 2022-05-12T19:12:56+00:00
Done. The problem I insisted on so vehemently is real (I just tried again) but must have another reason than I assumed, the nesting of the locks. For some reason still unknown to me it's indeed not possible to directly call `get_transaction_info` inside the anonymous method used for `for_all_txpool_txes`, one has to collect the ids first and then get the infos afterwards. But which is now no problem anymore thanks to moving the lock to the start of the method, as you proposed.

## j-berman | 2022-05-18T01:51:50+00:00
Alright, think I've got my head around the ideal path forward. A guide on further changes:

1. I think a "move" as you describe above is the way to go. `add_tx_to_transient_lists` could just check if the tx exists already first, then "move" it to the new `receive_time` if so. Less efficient, but significantly easier to reason that it is safe than when allowing duplicates case, which has more surface area to think through and deal with properly.

2. When a tx is upgrading from non-sensitive to sensitive in [`set_relayed`](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/9a124f681119855949f6406ecd69c2ad91da9770/src/cryptonote_core/tx_pool.cpp#L823-L862), update its `receive_time` and call `add_tx_to_transient_list`
	- See [this snippet](https://paste.debian.net/1241229/) for a sample implementation
	- This ensures that there will be an entry at the time the tx is thought to have broadcast successfully, preventing the [above circumstance](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8076#discussion_r869061356).

> And do you think that if this is done properly it's the definite solution to all the problems that you unearthed here regarding Dandelion++ versus cache, leaks, race conditions and everything? Or in other words, if we ship around this cliff as well, the PR is ready?

I haven't been able to identify any related issues with Dandelion++ with certainty and have spent a solid chunk of time digging; whereas with this code as is, I can and do think they are solve-able :)

Bonus 1 (possible future PR): Include something like a `broadcasted` boolean in the response over the incremental endpoint. Otherwise, a client that is able to see sensitive txs would confusingly be able to see the same tx twice when including a `pool_info_since` at t0, and then again at t1 if it broadcasts successfully after t0. The `broadcasted` boolean provides the client a reason why it would see the same tx twice, even if sending `pool_info_since` at t0 and then again at t1.

Bonus 2 (possible future PR): I would also advocate for a new `unconfirmed_transfer_details::m_state` that can differentiate between "in pool and broadcasted" and "in pool and unbroadcasted"

## j-berman | 2022-06-17T18:15:37+00:00
I think this section should be updated as follows:

```cpp
  void tx_memory_pool::add_tx_to_transient_lists(const crypto::hash& txid, double fee, time_t receive_time)
  {
    time_t now = time(NULL);
    const std::unordered_map<crypto::hash, time_t>::iterator it = m_added_txs_by_id.find(txid);
    if (it == m_added_txs_by_id.end())
    {
      m_added_txs_by_id.insert(std::make_pair(txid, now));
    }
    else
    {
      // This tx was already added to the map earlier, probably because then it was in the "stem"
      // phase of Dandelion++ and now is in the "fluff" phase i.e. got broadcasted: We have to set
      // a new time for clients that are not allowed to see sensitive txs to make sure they will
      // see it now if they query incrementally
      it->second = now;

      auto sorted_it = find_tx_in_sorted_container(txid);
      if (sorted_it == m_txs_by_fee_and_receive_time.end())
      {
        MERROR("Re-adding tx " << txid << " to tx pool, but it was not found in the sorted txs container");
      }
      else
      {
        m_txs_by_fee_and_receive_time.erase(sorted_it);
      }
    }
    m_txs_by_fee_and_receive_time.emplace(std::pair<double, time_t>(fee, receive_time), txid);

   ...
```

The logic reading `m_txs_by_fee_and_receive_time` in other places in the code clearly doesn't expect duplicates or txs to remain in the data structure after a tx is removed from the pool. Problems stemming from duplicates inside this `m_txs_by_fee_and_receive_time` will be exacerbated by the addition of logic to re-add txs to the transient lists when a tx is `just_broadcasted`, which means this is worth fixing in this PR alongside that logic imo.

Example 1: if a duplicate remains in `m_txs_by_fee_and_receive_time` after a tx is removed from the pool, then `tx_memory_pool::prune` will log an error and return (see #8415). This `prune` function logic handles pruning the size of a pool if it exceeds the max. It's critical that it executes correctly.

Example 2: [this commit](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/commit/250c48a289becc9d458e7ef5a891e95c53d9ae15) explicitly references the fact that this is a bug that a tx can still be in this `m_txs_by_fee_and_receive_time` after a tx is removed from the pool.

I also think it should be re-added to `m_txs_by_fee_and_receive_time` at the time it becomes "non-sensitive" to avoid leaking that it *was* sensitive based on the order it's present in the data structure.

I think the case to fix in this PR is strong, especially with the new O(1) lookup `m_added_txs_by_id` brings.



## j-berman | 2022-07-20T07:45:43+00:00
`res.added_pool_txs` just got cleared above. Seems it should be `added_pool_txs.size()`

## j-berman | 2022-07-20T07:52:36+00:00
I suggest using `CHECK_PAYMENT_SAME_TS` just for pool info here, and then call it again just for `bs.size() * COST_PER_BLOCK` below. Seems fine (expected even) to charge early based on work the daemon has done/will do.

## j-berman | 2022-07-20T07:53:52+00:00
`CORE_RPC_STATUS_PAYMENT_REQUIRED` could also be the case of this else (see other suggestion above to use `CHECK_PAYMENT_SAME_TS` for just pool info to avoid needing to deal with handling this error case correctly here)

## j-berman | 2022-07-20T08:50:42+00:00
Adding here too: would suggest separating pool info charge from blocks charge

## j-berman | 2022-07-26T00:58:43+00:00
Seems the `refreshed` param in `update_pool_state_from_pool_data` is always true

## rbrunner7 | 2022-07-27T05:33:36+00:00
Convinced. The change goes a bit against the "unity" of this PR, but I agree the opportunity to swat this bug in passing is good, and the circumstances are already documented by my comment here.

I copied your code verbatim.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-07-27T05:38:39+00:00
Wow, that's a silly bug. Corrected.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-07-27T06:00:09+00:00
Yes, deducting early is how it's done in other places as well. Adjusted according to your proposal.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-07-27T06:00:54+00:00
Solved.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-07-27T06:01:14+00:00
Done.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-07-27T06:06:49+00:00
Yeah, I noticed that as well while implementing, and I think I even left a comment somewhere. It looks like these "refreshed" parameters / mechanisms basically became inactive / lost sense a while ago, as a side effect (whether intended or unintended) of changes done by @moneromooo-monero , but I decided to just leave things as they are i.e. **not** investigating until I got to the bottom of this and then remove "refreshed".

I still prefer not to open this particular can of worms and just finish now with my own stuff ...

## jeffro256 | 2023-02-15T03:35:35+00:00
What's the point of passing the request object here when we already know what it's going to be? Also shouldn't this a `const&` not `const`? You could also speed up the response processing by passing the repsonse object by move.  

## rbrunner7 | 2023-02-15T18:50:52+00:00
Oh well. When I saw the mail informing me about this comment I was confused why code gets commented that has not changed at all, until I saw that this is code that @j-berman added ...

We have to finish this and then merge, I tell you.

Maybe @j-berman can reply.

## j-berman | 2023-02-16T01:07:50+00:00
> What's the point of passing the request object here when we already know what it's going to be?

`NodeRPCProxy::get_transactions` slices requests internally using the `RESTRICTED_TRANSACTIONS_COUNT`, and then this callback matches each sliced request to sliced response (so the caller can then construct the complete response how it wants to). Seemed a sensible way to structure this code, since it seems clients should always slice the request and might handle the response in a callback differently depending on context (e.g. fail early or continue).

> Also shouldn't this a const& not const? You could also speed up the response processing by passing the repsonse object by move.

Patch:

```cpp
diff --git a/src/wallet/node_rpc_proxy.cpp b/src/wallet/node_rpc_proxy.cpp
index aeb49d8e8..5980aa072 100644
--- a/src/wallet/node_rpc_proxy.cpp
+++ b/src/wallet/node_rpc_proxy.cpp
@@ -392,7 +392,7 @@ boost::optional<std::string> NodeRPCProxy::get_rpc_payment_info(bool mining, boo
   return boost::none;
 }
 
-boost::optional<std::string> NodeRPCProxy::get_transactions(const std::vector<crypto::hash> &txids, const std::function<void(const cryptonote::COMMAND_RPC_GET_TRANSACTIONS::request, const cryptonote::COMMAND_RPC_GET_TRANSACTIONS::response, bool)> &f)
+boost::optional<std::string> NodeRPCProxy::get_transactions(const std::vector<crypto::hash> &txids, const std::function<void(const cryptonote::COMMAND_RPC_GET_TRANSACTIONS::request&, const cryptonote::COMMAND_RPC_GET_TRANSACTIONS::response&, bool)> &f)
 {
   const size_t SLICE_SIZE = 100; // RESTRICTED_TRANSACTIONS_COUNT as defined in rpc/core_rpc_server.cpp
   for (size_t offset = 0; offset < txids.size(); offset += SLICE_SIZE)
@@ -417,7 +417,7 @@ boost::optional<std::string> NodeRPCProxy::get_transactions(const std::vector<cr
         check_rpc_cost(m_rpc_payment_state, "/gettransactions", resp_t.credits, pre_call_credits, resp_t.txs.size() * COST_PER_TX);
     }
 
-    f(req_t, resp_t, r);
+    f(std::move(req_t), std::move(resp_t), r);
   }
   return boost::optional<std::string>();
 }
diff --git a/src/wallet/node_rpc_proxy.h b/src/wallet/node_rpc_proxy.h
index aabf426ee..47a0ff101 100644
--- a/src/wallet/node_rpc_proxy.h
+++ b/src/wallet/node_rpc_proxy.h
@@ -59,7 +59,7 @@ public:
   boost::optional<std::string> get_dynamic_base_fee_estimate_2021_scaling(uint64_t grace_blocks, std::vector<uint64_t> &fees);
   boost::optional<std::string> get_fee_quantization_mask(uint64_t &fee_quantization_mask);
   boost::optional<std::string> get_rpc_payment_info(bool mining, bool &payment_required, uint64_t &credits, uint64_t &diff, uint64_t &credits_per_hash_found, cryptonote::blobdata &blob, uint64_t &height, uint64_t &seed_height, crypto::hash &seed_hash, crypto::hash &next_seed_hash, uint32_t &cookie);
-  boost::optional<std::string> get_transactions(const std::vector<crypto::hash> &txids, const std::function<void(const cryptonote::COMMAND_RPC_GET_TRANSACTIONS::request, const cryptonote::COMMAND_RPC_GET_TRANSACTIONS::response, bool)> &f);
+  boost::optional<std::string> get_transactions(const std::vector<crypto::hash> &txids, const std::function<void(const cryptonote::COMMAND_RPC_GET_TRANSACTIONS::request&, const cryptonote::COMMAND_RPC_GET_TRANSACTIONS::response&, bool)> &f);
 
 private:
   template<typename T> void handle_payment_changes(const T &res, std::true_type) {
```

## rbrunner7 | 2023-02-17T15:24:00+00:00
Patch applied, subjected to a short test, and force-pushed.

## jeffro256 | 2023-03-01T04:24:26+00:00
```suggestion
    f(req_t, resp_t, r);
```

You can reverse this line change (keep the rest of that latest commit). Having a `const&` bind to a `&&` is the same as binding to a `const&`. In other words, the `std::move` is doing nothing here and makes the code less clear

## rbrunner7 | 2023-03-05T16:50:48+00:00
Tried to understand, but sorry, that goes beyond my mediocre knowledge of C++, really couldn't say which of these two variants is better. @j-berman , ok with this change?

## j-berman | 2023-03-07T01:18:47+00:00
Yep I'm ok with it

## rbrunner7 | 2023-03-07T19:36:59+00:00
Done.

## jeffro256 | 2023-03-07T22:25:53+00:00
These fields cache RPC request information. Put these fields inside `NodeRPCProxy` and invalidate them inside of the `NodeRPCProxy::invalidate` method. Different nodes may have different clock times (or steady clocks in future PRs). When the daemon is switched out, so should this info. 

# Action History
- Created by: rbrunner7 | 2021-11-21T17:05:32+00:00
- Merged at: 2023-03-18T22:00:40+00:00
