---
title: 'wallet2: ensure transfers and sweeps use same fee calc logic'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8882
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2023-05-27T14:21:57+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-10-15T06:37:53+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2023-08-17T15:17:31+00:00'
merged_at: '2023-08-17T15:17:31+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Though highly unlikely today, it's theoretically possible to distinguish transfers from sweeps by the tx fee.

This PR ensures transfers and sweeps both use the result of `calculate_fee` as the tx fee (calculated using the tx's weight).

### Details

In a **sweep**: wallet2 first uses `estimate_fee` to get a baseline guess for the amount(s) to send, but will then use the result of `calculate_fee` as the tx fee.

In a **transfer**: wallet2 first uses `estimate_fee` as the tx fee. **If and only if** `calculate_fee` is larger than the result of `estimate_fee`, then it will use `calculate_fee`. Note that in practice today, the estimate is extremely likely to *under*-estimate the fee, therefore transfers are very likely to use `calculate_fee`, the same as sweeps today.

### The fix

Modify transfers to use the fee from `calculate_fee` as the tx fee always, just like sweeps.

This approach is easier to reason through than the other way around imo (modifying sweeps to be like transfers). With this change, *all* txs created by wallet2 should have a fee that is calculated from the ~~final~~ weight of the tx, rather than have bifurcated logic using either an estimate or calculated.

Edit 1: always using `calculate_fee` would also use a lower fee compared to using `estimate_fee` iff it's greater than `calculate_fee`.
Edit 2: in some theoretical cases wallet2 can end up using a fee that is not calculated using the **final** weight of the tx, but *is still* calculated from the tx's weight rather than an estimate.

# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2023-05-27T14:21:57+00:00
- Merged at: 2023-08-17T15:17:31+00:00
