---
title: Read interface for new serialization system
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8970
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- serialization
created_at: '2023-08-11T20:57:17+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-11-13T18:56:06+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This is the read interface for my proposed serialization system, along with the remainder of the (major) adapters/wrappers that were not in the write interface review. After this review are the implementations (epee, json, msgpack), and then the changes needed to the existing code.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2023-10-19T19:03:54+00:00
Protected method may cause private field to underflow

## jeffro256 | 2023-10-19T20:49:09+00:00
So are we choosing to support nested arrays now ?

## vtnerd | 2023-10-21T19:00:11+00:00
Iff there's a mismatch in `increment_depth()` calls. Are you advocating for a runtime check here, to guard against that too?

## vtnerd | 2023-10-21T19:03:16+00:00
I thought we always supported nested arrays? This occurs in the ZeroMQ code, and perhaps elsewhere. You can "get-around" this by putting a class in-between like:
```c++
struct nested { std::vector<uint32_t> inner; }
std::vector<nested> outer;
```
instead of
```c++
std::vector<std::vector<uint32_t>>
```
The complexity of the nested case is a little higher than the rest of the code, so I can understand if you think it should be removed.

## jeffro256 | 2023-10-24T18:34:49+00:00
I think the best design would be to make `increment_depth` and `decrement_depth` private, add a runtime check to `decrement_depth`, and then have `start_object` and `start_array` both call `increment_depth`, just like how `end_object` and `end_array` call `decrement_depth`.

This is because a `reader` implementation or any buggy serialization code for any type could cause this value to underflow. Also, this value merely acts (from my PoV) as a DDoS prevention measure. I can't think of when the actual value of `depth_` by itself would be useful to a format implementation. For this reason, I think it would be cleaner and more stable to hide the depth value, and have subclasses call the parent `start/end_object/array` methods as appropriate. 

## jeffro256 | 2023-10-24T18:37:29+00:00
Also, if there happens to be different structural limits we want to impose (e.g. only on objects) and we can do it in this base class, if we force the subclasses to go thru `start/end_object/array` methods, it will be easier to make those adjustments correctly.

## jeffro256 | 2023-10-24T19:04:32+00:00
What is this supposed to return for JSON, CBOR, or any other format with indefinite array lengths?

## jeffro256 | 2023-10-24T19:06:49+00:00
I would mark this as `virtual` in case it is ever needed to be overridden by a subclass. Since we usually use `reader` in a templated context, the compiler should usually be able to de-virtualize this method most of the time anyways. Same with `end_object`. 

## vtnerd | 2023-10-24T23:01:14+00:00
They (JSON, CBOR) `return 0`, and `is_array_end(size_t)` is called for each entry until the end is found. This is why `is_array_end(size_t)` is `virtual` and `end_array()` is not - the derived classes don't need to override the default.

Msgpack and epee return the number of items, and `is_array_end(size_t)` is only invoked once.

## vtnerd | 2023-10-24T23:04:09+00:00
I haven't had a need to `override` for msgpack, epee, protobuf, or JSON (and unlikely for CBOR either). `is_array_end(size_t)` and `key(...)` are both `virtual`, and are used to determine the end whereas these functions are simply used by the base class to track placement in the tree.

## vtnerd | 2023-10-24T23:04:39+00:00
Also, this is trivial to change this if a future format needs to override it.

## vtnerd | 2023-10-24T23:19:33+00:00
I'm leaning towards making this change, but I'll first describe how this is handled in the current design. Its not well documented, a short-coming that needs fixing (or else dropped).

The `from_bytes` template method has the following:
```c++
       R in{std::forward<T>(source)};
       bytes(in, dest);
       in.check_complete();
```
this requires that every reader type have a method called `check_complete()`. This method checks to make sure that the tree is "complete":
```c++
   void json_reader::check_complete() const
   {
     if (depth())
       WIRE_DLOG_THROW(error::rapidjson_e(rapidjson::kParseErrorUnspecificSyntaxError), "Unexpected end");
   }
```
So the potential underflow is intentional - either the next call to `increment_depth()` detects an overflow case or the `check_complete()` detects a non-zero depth.

AFAIK, this achieves the same thing, but with one-less branch per call to `decrement_depth()`. It probably looks better to have the check though, and the extra check is trivial in the design.

---------

I left `increment_depth()` and `decrement_depth()` as `protected` so that "skipping" a field could call them. I _think_ this has never been necessary, as `start_object()` and `end_object()`, etc, have been used instead (so at a minimum I would make the functions `private`).

## vtnerd | 2023-10-24T23:28:41+00:00
After further thought, I will just add the check. It's possible to call `end_object()` enough times to rollback to `0`, which is unintentional, so a runtime-check is needed. I'll also move them to `private`, as I can't recall using them in the derived classes.

## vtnerd | 2023-10-25T00:48:51+00:00
I moved the functions to `private` in the other review, but _might_ revert it. The fallout is that `do_start_object()` and `do_start_array(size_t)` can no longer be de-virtualized.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2023-08-11T20:57:17+00:00
