---
title: Doc anon networks
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8423
author: inoutgain
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-07-06T12:02:36+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-10-18T02:43:49+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
see COMMIT_EDITMSG

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2022-08-16T15:29:57+00:00
hopened -> opened

In the sentence mentioning `--proxy`, re-iterate (from the above table) exit nodes/i2p tunnels use only.

## vtnerd | 2022-08-16T15:41:29+00:00
Is the `#` comment helpful here? It might confuse novice users into thinking this is mandatory.

## vtnerd | 2022-08-16T15:42:45+00:00
Same thing here with the `#` comment. This is so short it could be done inline ->

entry point into the AN: `./monerod --proxy 127.0.0.1:5050` for tor and `./monerod --proxy 127.0.0.1:7657` for i2p.

## vtnerd | 2022-08-16T15:46:01+00:00
Is this currently accurate? This is an oversight in the `--proxy` patch then - I didn't even think about it during review. I'll confirm this is in a bit and probably do a follow-up to make this behavior the default (it is unlikely to break many setups). Manually setting `--p2p-bind-port` will still listen (although the setup is awkward).

## vtnerd | 2022-08-16T16:04:41+00:00
The information about `disable_noise` is incorrect. By default a dummy message is sent every 10-15 seconds (randomized) to make timing correlation attacks over tor/i2p more difficult. This uses more bandwidth and causes its own "noise" (signature) over the network - adversaries will know that you are running monero but it should be harder to trace transactions. The situation is:

 * An AN with noise enabled is always preferred over an AN with noise disabled.
 * An AN with outgoing connections is always preferred over an AN with no outgoing connections. 
 * I2P is always preferred over Tor if the above two do not apply.
 * The daemon will refuse to send transactions if any AN is enabled but has no outgoing connections on any AN.
 * Dandelion++ is not used over the AN, but the remote service receiving the tx over an AN is expected to use it after a randomized delay when `disable_noise` is NOT in use. (no way to detect or enforce this policy however)
 * `disable_noise` affects whether dummy messages are sent, disables randomized delaying when forwarding to clearnet, and disables Dandelion++ on the hidden service side.

## vtnerd | 2022-08-16T16:12:53+00:00
Mention that the onion address from this file must be listed in the `monerod` configuration to enable inbound connections. Otherwise `monerod` doesn't know the address to advertise to peers.

## vtnerd | 2022-08-16T16:27:27+00:00
"authorization" is misspelled. 

I would word this section differently - if the user does not specify some client authorization, then the RPC service is basically public (the server/port is listed in the available hidden services list). So the wording should steer users to adding some authentication.

## vtnerd | 2022-08-16T16:30:58+00:00
Mention that there is no benefit if `tord`/`i2pd` and `monerod` are running on the same machine. The AN provides encryption to the AN daemon; SSL is only useful if `monerod` is on a different box than the AN service.

## vtnerd | 2022-08-18T19:34:12+00:00
@selsta reminded me that one of the points is incorrect. A delay from i2p/tor->clearnet is only done when noise is enabled, there is no benefit to the delay when `disable_noise` is used.

## vtnerd | 2022-08-18T20:08:31+00:00
Wrong again, thanks @selsta .This section still needs to be updated because the language isn't quite correct. I updated my bullet-points from the first comment to be more accurate.

The most glaring issue is `tx will propagate outside the AN` is not accurate. When any AN is enabled, a local transaction is either sent over any AN or not sent at all. The `disable_noise` policy disables:
 * Periodic sending of dummy messages
 * Randomized delay on the hidden service side
 * Dandelion++ sending on the hidden service side (immediate flood/fluff from hidden service over clearnet)

## ridauhebauye | 2022-10-17T23:51:50+00:00
My understanding was that Dandelion++ nodes only send transactions on outgoing connections. If --proxy is set (and clearnet is bound to localhost, which I think is what most people would intend) then the node will have no incoming connections and therefore no transactions to relay. Should it perhaps be noted that transactions originating from the node itself are sent out via the proxy but relaying won't occur due to the above reasoning? I think this is important for those who might think they're not as susceptible to ISP traffic analysis due to Dandelion++ relaying. It is also important to note because it means that broadcasting multiple transactions within the same epoch can be easily linked together by the remote node as there will be no other transactions mixed in. 

# Action History
- Created by: inoutgain | 2022-07-06T12:02:36+00:00
