---
title: FFS Formalization (DO NOT MERGE!)
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/meta/pull/87
author: rehrar
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2017-07-12T22:25:57+00:00'
updated_at: '2020-09-15T18:38:14+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2020-09-15T18:38:14+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Don't you do it luigi....

# Discussion History
## anonimal | 2017-07-12T23:32:43+00:00
>There is no 'Monero Foundation' or corporation of any kind behind the movement.
>implies corporations can't donate
>implies Monero is a social "movement' when it's instead a tool: a means to an end

I would consider something more along the lines of "*Monero is an open-sourced, decentralized, community-driven project. Development is done by volunteers and funding is provided solely by community donations. There is no single entity controlling the ebb and flow of Monero; so, the Forum Funding System (FFS) facilitates the funding of volunteers when needed."

## anonimal | 2017-07-12T23:33:21+00:00
Please consider putting TL;DR's at the *top* of points or the page.

## anonimal | 2017-07-12T23:35:57+00:00
Redundant line.

## anonimal | 2017-07-12T23:45:58+00:00
Confusing English. Please consider:

*"In the idea stage, a member of the community has an idea of which they think will benefit the Monero Project. Their idea is then written into a proposal and then submitted to the community in PR form for feedback. **[TODO: The proposal takes the following template form as described here https://github.com/monero-project/meta/blob/master/FFS) <-- these steps should be listed here, not linked]**. After any potential revisions, and once the idea reaches general consensus, the proposal then moves to the next stage in the FFS workflow. Note: the proposal does not have to be written by the individual who plans to fulfill the proposal."*

## anonimal | 2017-07-12T23:48:48+00:00
>In this stage, a written proposal waits for a good match to a community member that is capable of getting the task done.

*"In this stage, the written proposal waits for someone who is both capable and dedicated to fulfilling the proposal. In some cases, the individual is the proposer..."*

>In this case, the individual can skip the Idea stage and put their proposal into the Open Tasks stage for comment by the community.

No, I think they still need to go through the Idea stage.

## anonimal | 2017-07-12T23:50:44+00:00
>Once a match is found, the individual (usually an expert in the field) can set milestones for the project, and make any adjustments that are needed to make the proposal realistic.

"*Once a match is found, the person fulfilling the proposal can then set milestones for the proposal and make any adjustments to the proposal as needed."*

>After a final round of time for the community to comment the proposal moves on to the next stage.
>missing comma

*"After a final round of time for the community to comment, the proposal moves onto the next stage."*

## anonimal | 2017-07-12T23:57:20+00:00
>It is up to each individual whether or not to donate to support the proposal, and some proposals may await funding for quite some time, while others are funded very quickly.

*"It is up to each community member to decide whether or not to donate to the proposal. Some proposals may await funding for quite some time while others are funded very quickly."*

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:11:49+00:00
>The idea has been proposed, an individual has agreed to do it, and the funds have been acquired, all that's left is to do it.
>do "it"? The idea and do what? The proposal? The funds? In terms of English, "it" is one of those words...

I think you can drop this sentence all-together (it's redundant).

>In this stage, the individual or team begins working on the project as outlined by the proposal,...

*"In this stage, the worker(s) who've agreed to complete the work either continue or begin the work as outlined by the proposal (worker(s) do not need to wait for funding to begin work),.."*

>the individual or team is to contact a member of the core team for a payout, and the milestone is considered complete.

*"the worker(s) must contact a member of the core team for a milestone payout, and then the milestone is considered complete."

>After all of the milestones have been complete, the agreed upon deliverable has been given to the community, and the individual has been paid, the proposal moves to the last stage.

*"After all of milestones have been completed, and the worker(s) been paid, the proposal moves to the last stage."* <-- milestone implies deliverables.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:12:33+00:00
>Sit back, put on your party hat, and celebrate. What once started as an idea is now a reality. Things are now finished and the Monero community benefits from yet another completed proposal. This is what makes Monero special. The community believes in the tech and in its members. We did it. Many more proposals to come.

Nice to say, but not very useful for this section. We should only stick to must-have information.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:15:13+00:00
>Read the Terms. Seriously. Things will not go well if you do not read the Terms and follow them.

Should simply be *"[Read the terms](ffs/terms.md)"*

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:15:43+00:00
Would be better to also document which channels or point to the contact page.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:18:30+00:00
>it's fine to let people know about by posting in the various Hangouts

Hangouts aren't specified.

>There will be a time however when people know it's around, and if it's still not funded then contuining to talk about it will only annoy others.

This is a broad assumption. I'd consider making the announcement process more formal and measurable. If all of those steps are taken, we can *then* consider implementing consequences or advise someone to not "annoy" others.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:19:20+00:00
>It's not 'your baby',

Nay, but it may be. Maybe take out this bit (English-wise).

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:20:07+00:00
>They have lives to, and aren't paid to work on Monero. That being said, they realize they forget things and don't take offense if you poke them every once in a while to remind them.

These are more assumptions, and we should be more specific about payout windows.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:21:51+00:00
>There will be some people that think they are owed the world for cheap and make a lot of demands. Unless these demands are reasonable, you don't have to listen to them. You can charge a fair price, but you should not expect to make your fortune off of the FFS. This is an open source project, after all.

More broad assumptions, subjective writing, and I don't see the importance of this item in terms of this document. Maybe replace with a simple *"Feel free to charge a fair price for work produced"*?

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:26:50+00:00
>'contractor'

If this is the term, then this should be applied throughout all of `ffs/overview.md`.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:30:18+00:00
>This document is written in order to clearly outline the expectations of the Monero community of a FFS proposal and the individual or team (hereafter 'contractor') that will fulfill it.

*"This document is written in order to clearly outline the expectations of the FFS process and the individual(s) (hereafter 'contractor') contracted to fulfill an FFS proposal(s)."*

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:33:46+00:00
>By submitting a proposal, you agree that you have read and understood these terms, and failure to comply with these terms will lead to an investigation that may lead to the dismissal of the noncompliant individual from the FFS project.

*"By submitting a proposal, you agree that you have read and understood these terms. Failure to comply with these terms will lead to an investigation by the Monero Core Team which may lead to the dismissal of contractor(s)."*

>These terms are not legally binding, as Monero is not a corporation, but if you do not follow them you there will be many issues with fulfilling the contract and receiving your payments.

"*These terms are not legally binding: Monero is not a corporation but, if you do not follow the terms, there will be repercussions regarding your contract or receiving payment."*

>So if you value your time and wish to be compensated for your work, then following these terms is advised.

Redundant and assumptive. Please consider removing.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:36:23+00:00
>community meetings.

This is development related and should not be splintered from development channels or `#monero`. https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/86#issuecomment-314934660.

>The item must be added to the GitHub agenda/issue ASAP

No link. Please consider adding a link.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:38:35+00:00
>, tough. He/she should have been there or voted by proxy.

I think we should try to be more professional with our language for formal documents. In fact, we should remove this line all-together because allowing a proxy in this sense allows for potential miscommunication and drama. Let's KISS.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:42:54+00:00
>All votes will be done by a show of hands (o/) for 'yays' and 'nays', the votes will be tallied, the number verified, and the majority shall win the vote. We do not have an electoral college. :P

This is dangerous and gives too much power to the peanut gallery and/or or any IRC botnet. This passage needs to be greatly clarified. Also, we already have a Governance Process of which we should put to the forefront: https://github.com/monero-project/kovri-docs/blob/4086a9e6443aad13e8187a923d6120b487d2b7ac/developer/CONTRIBUTING.md#governance-process.

>:P

I don't think emoticons should be in formal documents.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:43:43+00:00
This will obviously need peer review but, as it stands; BSD-3 only.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:50:05+00:00
>that at the minimum the...

that, at a minimum, the...

>#monero-community 

This channel splinters `#monero/#monero-dev` https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/86#issuecomment-314934660.

>Because there are usually only two meetings a month, it means that a contractor should aim to attend all meetings so as to meet this criteria. In the case of emergency or other extenuating circumstances, the contractor should arrange to deliver an update via another medium, or by proxy in the meeting. This is to be the exception rather than the rule however, and multiple infringements could lead to an investigation.

- If a contractor provides above average / ample reporting via an open issue / proposal (like we do on the forum) but cannot make meetings, they shouldn't penalized. This also assumes that their English is fluent enough to engage in real-time IRC.
- I don't agree with having proxies (see comments above)
- Reporting requirements should be detailed and not ambiguous (we'll have to figure that out).

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:50:24+00:00
>compelted

completed

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:53:25+00:00
>The contractor understands that by submitting the proposal and getting it funded, they now work for, and are answerable to, the Monero community.

*"The contractor understands that, by submitting the proposal and having the proposal receive funding, the contractor now work for (and answers to) the Monero community."*

>It is expected that in your proposal you provide realistic milestones and timings for milestone completions.

*"It is expected that, in your proposal, you provide realistic milestones and timings for milestone completions."*

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:56:00+00:00
>The community is not composed of experts

That's a broad assumption and counterproductive language. I'd consider removing this.

>Instead the contractor is expected to be the expert and provide accurate estimations.

This sentence can also be removed and the previous sentence appended with exactly what "accurate estimations" are to be expected.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:57:24+00:00
>proposte

propose

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:58:34+00:00
>agrees to the ammends,

*"agrees to the amended proposal"

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T00:59:53+00:00
>bow out of the project.

*"abandon the proposal*"

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T01:02:02+00:00
*How* they "tell the community" should be clearly stated.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T01:02:58+00:00
>If there are any adjustments to the proposal that need to be made to fit individual needs or schedules, he/she will bring the ammended terms to the community for review and approval.

*How* should be clearly stated.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T01:03:58+00:00
>agrees to the ammends

*"agrees to the amended proposal"*

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T01:06:22+00:00
>(or trusted proxy)

See dangers above.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T01:09:06+00:00
>contract

contractor

>, assuming another contractor hasn't already picked up the proposal.

*"(assuming another contractor hasn't already picked up the proposal)"*

>They can provide

*"Contractors can provide"*

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T01:10:58+00:00
>, the contractor is expected not to be a baby about it.

I wouldn't use this language for a formal document. Providing clearer expectations will be better for everyone.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T01:12:23+00:00
>we want a [smooth](https://github.com/iamsmooth)

Linking to smooth's github account makes no sense

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T01:13:54+00:00
>We apologize

There's no need to apologize for being professional

>Hopefully.

I don't think the document should end like a personal diary. I think we can get the point across with a disclaimer.

## anonimal | 2017-07-13T01:14:11+00:00
I think this entire conclusion could be re-written into a disclaimer, and put in the beginning.

## anonimal | 2017-08-07T20:33:26+00:00
>They have lives to

s/to/too/

>and aren't paid to work on Monero

This isn't always true. Core members can also open an FFS to work on monero or monero-related development. I think this part of the line should be removed.

## luigi1111 | 2017-08-09T16:39:57+00:00
It is possible for us to, yes, but that line is still presently accurate. Maybe it could be made more clear somehow, essentially to reflect that we aren't compensated _for_ being on the core team, but could be for other things (even FFS management or whatever other "core" things we are doing for free now).

## anonimal | 2017-08-09T19:44:49+00:00
>All votes will be done by a show of hands (o/) for 'yays' and 'nays', the votes will be tallied, the number verified, and the majority shall win the vote. We do not have an electoral college.

This looks dangerous and ineffective. It's incredibly cheap to create identities, come to a meeting, vote, and disappear.

As for solutions, off the top of my head, [Decred](https://www.decred.org/) has applied their solution to this problem very well, IMHO.

## ajs-xmr | 2017-10-09T13:26:05+00:00
> these terms are not legally binding

Why not? You do not have to be a corporation to have legally binding terms in a contract.

## ajs-xmr | 2017-10-09T13:48:20+00:00
Agree with @anonimal. [Unique Ring Signatures](https://github.com/monero-project/urs) could also be an alternative solution, but not sure what "membership" criteria should be used to create a key ring.

## erciccione | 2017-10-10T16:19:44+00:00
> Decred has applied their solution to this problem very well,

Their voting system is very interesting (explained [here](https://docs.decred.org/getting-started/user-guides/agenda-voting/)). Should we start thinking to integrate something similar? More Monero expands, more urgent this gets

# Action History
- Created by: rehrar | 2017-07-12T22:25:57+00:00
- Closed at: 2020-09-15T18:38:14+00:00
