---
title: 'multisig: add key exchange round booster'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8203
author: UkoeHB
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-03-03T21:48:50+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-08-02T18:21:43+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-07-16T22:27:48+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-07-16T22:27:48+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This PR adds a small optimization to multisig account creation that is especially useful for 2-of-3 groups (disclaimer: there is a bounty for it [here](https://github.com/haveno-dex/haveno/issues/86)).

Multisig account creation is a series of rounds. Each round consists of sending messages to all the other group members. A member cannot complete a round until they have received a message for that round from each other member.

A standard 2-of-3 setup ceremony looks like this:
**Round 1**: Members A, B, C send initial messages to all other members.
**Round 2**: Members A, B, C use the previous round's messages to make their personal shares of the final key. They send a second message to all other members.
**Finalization**: Once a member has a full set of round 2 messages, they can finish the account.

That setup ceremony requires 2 communication rounds. For 2-of-3 escrowed markets, the buyer party should instead be able to complete the ceremony in one step so they can fund the multisig wallet right away.

With boosting, we can instead have this setup ceremony:
1. Members A, B send initial messages to each other and to member C.
2. Members A, B create 'round 2 booster' messages and send them to member C.
3. Member C completes round 1 immediately. He creates a round 1 and a round 2 message and sends them to members A, B. Member C then uses the booster messages to complete round 2, finalizing his local multisig account in the same step.
4. Members A, B complete round 1 then make round 2 messages and send them to each other.
5. Members A, B complete round 2 and finalize the multisig account.

So, by adding rounds to members A and B, member C can complete a 2-of-3 multisig account in one step.

**DISCLAIMER**: Kex boosting is expected to be used in conjunction with account force-updating. Extreme care must be taken when designing a system that uses these features to avoid attack vectors that lead to funds getting stuck or possibly stolen (I'd hesitate to use it at all until I or someone else does a write-up on how to do it safely).

#### TODO

- Still need to update `simplewallet` (and the `mms` presumably @rbrunner7 ).
- This PR is missing functional tests for the expanded wallet2 api (`tests/functional_tests/multisig.py`). It would be cool if someone who likes Python could help me with this.

#### Future Work

- Try to refactor `wallet2` so creating a multisig wallet doesn't involve converting an existing normal wallet's keys. Once a multisig wallet has been created, there should be no way to 'recreate' it using a different M/N configuration. Without that refactor, a user could boost a multisig account using one M/N configuration with a normal account (before converting their normal account to multisig), then later on when they actually convert to a multisig account use a different M/N configuration. If either of those M/N configs was an (N-1)-of-N, then the user will leak their multisig private key shares for that setup when setting up the _other_ configuration (via the key exchange ceremony).

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2022-09-14T16:00:41+00:00
This line didn't have to change, and arguably shouldn't change.

## vtnerd | 2022-09-14T16:02:18+00:00
This type should possibly be wipeable / locked as well now that its being passed around. It's basically identical to the password.

## vtnerd | 2022-09-14T16:59:46+00:00
Looks like it won't matter, but this `&` needs to be removed just in case. Otherwise, a dead stack element would be used in the lambda.

## vtnerd | 2022-09-14T23:45:15+00:00
I can't find the implementation of this function. Where is it? The builds supposedly pass, but it doesn't appear in the current codebase either. What am I missing?

## vtnerd | 2022-09-14T23:55:32+00:00
Shouldn't this be a hard error (exception)? Why allow it?

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-19T00:46:41+00:00
Looks like [it already is](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/fc907a957078cae2dc68348886a33363848dd089/src/crypto/chacha.h#L54)

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-19T00:47:21+00:00
Needed to rebase

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-19T00:52:00+00:00
Just trying to remove some code duplication while I'm here

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-19T01:24:51+00:00
In this case, the user passed in `num_signers` and `threshold` manually for a multisig account that doesn't exist yet (e.g. because you are missing one participant's initial kex message - this will happen when boosting round 2 of a 2-of-3 setup where you get the round 1 initial kex message of one participant and then boost round 2 for the other who isn't available). If the manually defined `num_signers` and `threshold` are different from the `num_signers` and `threshold` that the actual future multisig account gets, then there can be a problem (as described in the code comment).

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-19T16:57:12+00:00
This is a breaking change. In existing code, adding your own initial message to the `make_multisig()` command is optional.

## vtnerd | 2022-10-28T15:49:06+00:00
I haven't run any tests to confirm this, but while re-writing the serialization engine I caught some interesting things by code review. The current output engine stores all variable bytes internally as `std::string` and the JSON output engine has a [limited set of escapes](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/contrib/epee/src/parserse_base_utils.cpp#L42) that never inspects invalid utf8 sequences. As a result, `monerod` is likely writing invalid JSON quite often, except it doesn't matter because we have custom de-serialization code too! Although sometimes we intentionally store hex-data in these `std::string`s (when someone realizes it matters) - which is inefficient if a binary format is the target (which can happen if a `struct` can be used in binary or JSON RPC).

The [new serialization branch](https://github.com/vtnerd/monero/tree/replace_p2p_serialization2) I'm working on (partially) fixes this because a container with `value_type` as `char` is treated as utf8 and `value_type` as `std::uint8_t` is treated as a blob (which the new JSON engine writes as hex).

I'm not sure what to do (right now) because we have similar code already released. My new serialization engine works with `epee::byte_slice` which is one of the easiest ways to handle this, but this is going to be a pain with the current engine.

I guess we just provide another technically invalid JSON response? It seems to be working for now, but I'm a bit worried that the switch to `rapidjson` in my serialization branch is going to ruin backwards compatibility.

## vtnerd | 2022-10-28T16:07:27+00:00
I'm not sure why an out parameter was chosen, but there's little benefit to it. The code generated isn't going to be more efficient; all modern ABIs have the caller pass a pointer via register that the callee uses to `std::move` or directly initialize into. So the primary difference is (typically) a worse interface for the caller.

Same thing for the function below since it appears to be overwriting `out` entirely too.

## vtnerd | 2022-10-28T16:53:51+00:00
Yikes. Should the wallet track the values given in the booster request to ensure that they don't change in the future? Downstream projects can enforce this policy, but it seems doing it here if possible is best. 

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-28T17:20:05+00:00
The `multisig_info` here is a vector of `b58` strings appended to an [explicit textual multisig prefix](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/365fd45b031b0a5c8104195dfabb786e839cb114/src/multisig/multisig_kex_msg.cpp#L54), because we want the multisig stuff to be copy-paste-able.

They are `multisig_kex_msg`s, which internally do [this](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/365fd45b031b0a5c8104195dfabb786e839cb114/src/multisig/multisig_kex_msg.cpp#L157):
```
    m_msg.append(tools::base58::encode(serialized_msg_ss.str()));
```

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-28T17:28:27+00:00
Do you mean 'instead of returning an account'? Outparams are just a convention I decided to stick with for uniform interfaces (although I do break that occasionally, mainly for trivial return types and const class member getters; tbh const class member getters probably don't need the `get_` prefix hmm - I am still trying to clean up this pattern tbh).

For example, this way `void get_*` and `bool try_get_*` follow a similar semantic pattern. A `*get_*` function may or not be writing directly into the outparam(s), so _sometimes_ it is more efficient and _always_ there is the same interface pattern.

This is part of the code style I have been developing in the seraphis lib. The other widely-used pattern is `*make_*`, which is used to 'build something new', and is differentiated from `*get_*` which is used to 'extract something from an existing representation or composite'. There is also `*gen_*` for making mocks, sometimes I return by value for those because I care less about efficiency and consistency for mocks.

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-28T17:49:07+00:00
The wallet _should_ not couple multisig and normal wallet code, so that the first step of making a multisig wallet is defining M and N and those values are baked into the multisig core account file (even before initializing key exchange by defining the set of signers). But here we are...

In general, this boosting mechanism is very easy to use incorrectly since it only makes sense to use in combination with force updating the post-kex verification round (which is unsafe if used without nailing down the trust matrix/MPC theory of your use-case), so it should only be used by people who know what they are doing. Maybe we need some kind of gate for this 'enterprise-level' feature...


## vtnerd | 2022-10-28T18:06:06+00:00
Ah crap, I forgot about that. I think I even mentioned this to you?

EDIT: I recall pushing you towards this serialization style, then immediately forgot about it.

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-28T18:10:41+00:00
I don't remember, but I do remember stuff breaking when I didn't use `b58` (maybe the deserializer can't handle a vector of strings that don't contain characters? or maybe the python integration test was broken because it uses json? I don't remember exactly).

## vtnerd | 2022-10-28T18:11:36+00:00
Oh yeah, I remember the discussion more clearly now - we definitely selected base58 because it also helped with passing messages via email, etc. Damn, too focused on serialization or something :/

## vtnerd | 2022-10-28T18:15:00+00:00
Crap.

I've been pushing things towards `optional<T>` or `expect<T>` for various reasons, and away from the existing style of `bool` or `void` with out parameter (and towards a style where exceptions are _typically_ only for shutdown related events, which I kind-of violated in `wire::` serialization code).

Returning the type directly, especially when there is no `optional<T>` or `expect<T>`, is often easier on the caller code. Especially when the result is going directly into another function call, etc.

I thought perhaps you did this for performance reasons (typically that is what programmers cite), but this rationale is a bit different. If your happy with it, I'm not going to waste my time pushing back. Although it would be nice if seraphis used return-by-value where easily possible; (because as mentioned in last paragraph) return-by-value is often more composable.

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-28T18:20:45+00:00
I'm actually skeptical about the value of ubiquitous function composition. Sometimes what you need for visual clarity is less code density, and sometimes what you need in order to realize 'I am writing spaghetti and need to decompose into more functions' is an excessive amount of lines of code.

How about just take the seraphis_lib as a case study and see how it goes :)

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-28T18:29:43+00:00
Also re: efficiency, sometimes an outparam is used to initialize an object in the caller and sometimes it is assigned to an object in the caller. For the assignment case I want to avoid excessive copies (although you seem to be implying this won't happen, so idk).

## vtnerd | 2022-10-28T18:36:57+00:00
I forgot about the key benefit in C/C++ - aliasing. When returning-by-value, the compiler knows that the return value is never aliased anywhere. With an out parameter, _any_ function call (even those with zero parameters) can mutate the out parameter (because it can be a reference-to something in static memory touched by the zero parameter function). This causes the compiler to be pessimistic when optimizing around function calls (and a few other areas).

The code generated is typically close in both cases, but it also helps with bugs where an out parameter is aliasing another in parameter (waiting for Rust programmers to pile on here). Although like with the code generation difference, I can't recall seeing that bug hit often in C++.

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-28T18:51:01+00:00
> The code generated is typically close in both cases, but it also helps with bugs where an out parameter is aliasing another in parameter (waiting for Rust programmers to pile on here).

I suppose we are getting a bit off-topic, but this 'dangerous aliasing' is used for efficiency gains all over the crypto library.

```
crypto::secret_key a, b, c;
sc_add(a, a, b);  //a += b
sc_add(a, b, c);  //a = b + c
```

Where `sc_add()` is writing directly into the 32-byte outparam (the first parameter).

It's definitely important, when designing a function, to make sure if aliasing is present it won't cause problems. It's also only viable in single-threaded code obviously.


## vtnerd | 2022-10-28T21:31:01+00:00
> Also re: efficiency, sometimes an outparam is used to initialize an object in the caller and sometimes it is assigned to an object in the caller. For the assignment case I want to avoid excessive copies (although you seem to be implying this won't happen, so idk).

I'm going overkill on this explanation, but it is interesting.

If the out parameter is only being partially modified, it is clearly almost always more efficient than return-by-value. Otherwise, return-by-value is typically better because RVO/NRVO produces ASM (basically) identical to an out parameter that is uninitialized (by caller) and marked with the `restrict` keyword. Since usage of the `restrict` keyword is rare, and types are often initialized to some value immediately in C++, the "conventional wisdom" is to now prefer return-by-value in most situations.

When RVO/NRVO fails, moving is mandatory if possible, otherwise the fallback is copying. The move case is typically similar (in performance but not ASM) to out parameter or slightly slower. Might be slightly faster sometimes since `restrict` is rarely used on out parameters.

The fallback copying case basically always stinks, unless its a simple bit-copy (where move and copy are identical).

----
This confused me at first, so to explain the ASM - the caller just provides an uninitialized chunk of memory on the stack via register to the callee, which then does one single direct construction on the chunk of memory when RVO/NRVO is possible. This memory address can then be passed via register to another function - so `void handle(std::string); std::string a_string(); void run() {handle(a_string()); }` can produce ASM with 0 copies or moves and 1 initialization ... all the way back in C++03 days.

Compare to out parameter - `std::string` must be initialized by caller, and then mutated or overwritten by callee, etc.

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-28T22:29:36+00:00
> When RVO/NRVO fails, moving is mandatory if possible, otherwise the fallback is copying. The move case is typically similar (in performance but not ASM) to out parameter or slightly slower. Might be slightly faster sometimes since restrict is rarely used on out parameters.

I may be underestimating compilers, but from what I understand RVO/NRVO doesn't help when you have composite types that are basically big blobs, which is what we are dealing with in the seraphis library.

For example I have this (64 bytes):

```
struct SpEnote final
{
    rct::key m_onetime_address;
    rct::key m_amount_commitment;
};
```

And this function:

```
void make_seraphis_enote_core(const rct::key &onetime_address,
    const crypto::secret_key &amount_blinding_factor,
    const rct::xmr_amount amount,
    SpEnote &enote_core_out)
{
    enote_core_out.m_onetime_address = onetime_address;
    enote_core_out.m_amount_commitment = rct::commit(amount, rct::sk2rct(amount_blinding_factor));
}
```

Both of the following cases require you to 1) instantiate an `SpEnote`, 2) copy-assign the members of the enote.

```
// 1) return value (internally make `SpEnote temp;` then return it to RVO initialize the `enote`)
const SpEnote enote{make_seraphis_enote_core(Ko, x, a)};

// 2) outparam
SpEnote enote;
make_seraphis_enote_core(Ko, x, a, enote);
```

With the outparam, I can reuse an existing `SpEnote` instance to make and consume multiple enotes in sequence (hypothetically) without copy-assigning it in the loop. [Here's](https://github.com/UkoeHB/monero/blob/c35686fcbbd17838cf23130c53495a8dd0e50502/src/seraphis/serialization_demo_utils.cpp#L157) an example of something like that (I did a search on my code and discovered I don't actually use this pattern very often, but [here's](https://github.com/UkoeHB/monero/blob/c35686fcbbd17838cf23130c53495a8dd0e50502/src/seraphis/tx_enote_scanning_utils.cpp#L677) an actually decent example).

I can also do partial-construction of objects without copy-assigning twice (found a bunch of examples in enote record recovery [for example](https://github.com/UkoeHB/monero/blob/c35686fcbbd17838cf23130c53495a8dd0e50502/src/seraphis/tx_enote_record_utils.cpp#L387); those all use `try_get*` methods but [here's](https://github.com/UkoeHB/monero/blob/c35686fcbbd17838cf23130c53495a8dd0e50502/src/seraphis/tx_builders_inputs.cpp#L589) an example in the tx builders).

At the end of the day all the cryptography going on pretty much amortizes all optimization at this level.

## vtnerd | 2022-10-31T16:11:50+00:00
> I can also do partial-construction of objects

Meaning some of the memory is left uninitialized? This is a bad idea unless value/brace initialization is used everywhere for the `struct`s or a default constructor initializes everything. 

My other criticism would be how if the `struct` gets a new member, these functions have to be updated or initialization doesn't occur. I think some of these (all?) should be member functions to keep things together. Monero keeps doing this c-style with C++ bits or something (just style though I suppose).

I _think_ you may have meant partial mutation or something? Which is a stronger case for making it a member function.

-----

> I may be underestimating compilers, but from what I understand RVO/NRVO doesn't help when you have composite types that are basically big blobs, which is what we are dealing with in the seraphis library.

> Both of the following cases require you to 1) instantiate an SpEnote, 2) copy-assign the members of the enote.

> With the outparam, I can reuse an existing SpEnote instance to make and consume multiple enotes in sequence (hypothetically) without copy-assigning it in the loop.

The caller ASM with return-by-value doesn't necessarily perform a move. In the stack variable examples you provided, no "move" occurs with either style. In both cases a memory address on the stack is provided to the callee.

If the destination address in the caller can alias, the compiler must use a stack address and perform a move with return-by-value (but not with out parameter). Overwriting an element in a container is one such example; the compiler always assumes that a container element pointer is aliased elsewhere. However, the `emplace_back()`+`back()` style with out parameter isn't necessarily better - that requires 2 initializations with out parameter vs 1 initialization and 1 move with return-by-value.

The standard recommendation is to always initialize variables on declaration in C++, which tips things towards return-by-value a bit. Seraphis is doing a C-style construction everywhere, so that changes things towards out parameters a bit (there are more scenarios where out parameters are better). The only caveat is the pointer aliasing in callee (which again, is why return-by-value is being pushed in C++), but it probably doesn't matter much for a lot of this code. 

--------------

```c++
struct blob { char data[64]; };
blob return_blob();
void take_blob(const blob&);
void test() { take_blob(return_blob()); }
```

The `test` function just needs to create stack space and do some register manipulation, but no copying/moving is required. 

## UkoeHB | 2022-10-31T16:36:48+00:00
> >    I can also do partial-construction of objects
> Meaning some of the memory is left uninitialized? This is a bad idea unless value/brace initialization is used everywhere for the structs or a default constructor initializes everything.

Sorry, I meant step-based member-wise initialization of an outparameter that is reused between function calls. With a return value you need to copy assign all the members then copy assign the return value to the temporary shuttle object.

> The standard recommendation is to always initialize variables on declaration in C++, which tips things towards return-by-value a bit.

I definitely agree that non-data types with some kind of 'behavior' must have a strict C++ interface with constructors and member functions. Doing that for data types where all your operations are data member writes and reads creates a kind of big mess of getters and setters. Maybe there is a way to do it that's clean, but I couldn't figure it out.

## vtnerd | 2022-11-01T00:19:51+00:00
I'm hihacking this PR (sorry), but for posterity:

> Sorry, I meant step-based member-wise initialization of an outparameter that is reused between function calls. With a return value you need to copy assign all the members then copy assign the return value to the temporary shuttle object.

I might be misunderstanding this statement, but if you meant something like:

```c++
struct blob { char value[32]; };
struct two_blobs { blob values[2]; };
blob return_blob();
two_blobs return_blobs() { return {return_blob(), return_blob()}; }
```

take that code snippet to gcc godbolt, you get:

```
return_blobs():
        push    rbx
        mov     rbx, rdi
        call    return_blob()
        lea     rdi, [rbx+32]
        call    return_blob()
        mov     rax, rbx
        pop     rbx
        ret
```

You should get similar results if `return_blobs()` used a named return variable. The callee just forwards the ("hidden") out address it received to the next function for initialization. It's identical to forwarding the address of the out parameter field/member. This of course, doesn't always work out exactly (so I'm _not_ proposing a change away from out variables).

## UkoeHB | 2022-11-01T00:46:54+00:00
I mean something like this:

```
struct two_blobs { blob values[2]; };

bool try_get_blobs(const std::size_t i, two_blobs &blobs_out)
{
    if (!try_get_blob1(i, blobs_out.values[0])
        return false;

    get_blob2(blobs_out.values[1]);

    return true;
}

int main()
{
    two_blobs blobs_temp;
    for (std::size_t i{0}; i < n; ++i)
    {
        if (!try_get_blobs(i, blobs_temp)
            continue;

        do_something(blobs_temp);
    }
}
```

## UkoeHB | 2022-11-01T00:48:38+00:00
Updating wallet2 to have safer multisig-wallet-creation semantics is out of scope for this PR. I will mark it as a 'todo potential future PR'.

# Action History
- Created by: UkoeHB | 2022-03-03T21:48:50+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-07-16T22:27:48+00:00
