---
title: '[CRITICAL] Fixes x86-64 compatibility problem'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8441
author: Thor-x86
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-07-17T17:11:55+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-08-08T06:27:14+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
I'm sorry for shouting this as critical, but please **don't use** `-Ofast` flag for sake of compatibility as it causes compiler to produce opcode which older CPU cannot comprehend. As a result, that older generation CPU (as example Intel Atom D510) throws [IOT illegal instruction](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/programmable/683620/current/illegal-instruction.html) error while running monero utilities. This makes entire monero utilities useless on all older x86-64 machines. For the worst, all release binaries of monero at package managers are compiled with`-Ofast` flag. Enthusiasts with potato server are suffering while trying to contribute their server as a full node.

As a reference, this is [an explanation from manual](https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/gcc/Optimize-Options.html):

> **-Ofast:** Disregard strict standards compliance. -Ofast enables all -O3 optimizations. It also enables optimizations that are not valid for all standard-compliant programs. It turns on -ffast-math, -fallow-store-data-races and the Fortran-specific -fstack-arrays, unless -fmax-stack-var-size is specified, and -fno-protect-parens. It turns off -fsemantic-interposition.

See? This type of optimization breaks well-known standards! If a superuser want to optimize stuffs, let him/her compile it himself/herself. Please please do not bother to let others down. Thank you for your support.

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2022-07-18T17:42:11+00:00
I think it would help simplify review and reduce merge confusion with other PRs to keep the OPT_FLAG_RELEASE setting in this location and remove the conditionals.

## Thor-x86 | 2022-07-19T16:29:08+00:00
Sorry for that, I thought it would be better to regroup somewhere relevant. Amending the commit seems too dangerous for now, any suggestion what should I do?

## iamamyth | 2022-07-19T17:17:26+00:00
I'd say just leave it for now until there's a consensus on the best resolution, as, setting aside jeffro256's comment, the proposed solutions appears to be 0-1 liners.

# Action History
- Created by: Thor-x86 | 2022-07-17T17:11:55+00:00
