---
title: 'multisig: force update option for key exchange [master]'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8329
author: UkoeHB
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-05-15T01:49:46+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-06-28T14:38:19+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2022-09-26T19:47:50+00:00'
merged_at: '2022-09-26T19:47:50+00:00'
---

# Original Description
### Motivation

In the default multisig key exchange (account setup) ceremony, every key exchange round requires a message from every signer. That requirement may not be strictly necessary in some real-world use-cases (where it may be safe to assume some or all signers are trustworthy during account setup), so this PR adds an option to 'force-update' key exchange.

### Changes

- Adds a `force_update_use_with_caution` flag to the `multisig_account::kex_update()` method (it defaults to `false`). That interface change is propagated up the call stack to the `exchange_multisig_keys()` method in `wallet2` and the RPC.
  - When force-updating an intermediate key exchange round, you need at least `num_signers - current_round_num` messages from _other_ signers (this is the bare minimum to actually make progress).
  - When force-updating the post-kex verification round, you only need to pass in the local account's post-kex verification message (which was the local account's output from the previous round).
- Adds a unit test demoing the new method.
- Miscellaneous cleanup related to multisig (`gen_multisig.cpp`, unit tests, etc.).

### Future Work

- Currently, `simplewallet` and the MMS don't have an interface for the force update flag (I just defaulted it to `false`). A future PR can update the interface there if it's desired (@rbrunner7 ).

### Dangers

The new flag is a foot-gun that can enable the following problems.

- A signer's account created through force-updating may be unable to participate in signing (i.e. the final multisig address they obtain is malformed if there is a malicious player during account setup).
- If a signer force-updates the post-kex verification round, they may believe their account is complete and the multisig group is able to create signatures. In reality, there may not be a threshold of honest signers that completed their accounts. Any funds sent to the multisig address obtained by the force-updater might be lost forever.
- If honest multisig signers force-update any intermediate key exchange round, a malicious player could execute an 'address hostage' attack where the final address produced can only make signatures if that malicious player participates (although he wouldn't be able to make signatures on his own).


# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2022-08-17T23:17:56+00:00
Pinging @moneromooo-monero some whitespace changes ... allow ?

## vtnerd | 2022-08-17T23:18:04+00:00
Here again.

## vtnerd | 2022-08-18T00:33:53+00:00
Was `CHECK_MULTISIG_ENABLED()` intentionally removed? Its not used in `mms_next`.

## vtnerd | 2022-08-18T00:56:13+00:00
Why was the `!ready` check removed? Seems like that should be done, even with the new `if` statement below.

## vtnerd | 2022-08-18T00:58:55+00:00
Is this just to retrieve the post-kex message multiple times or something? Otherwise I don't see why this was added.

## vtnerd | 2022-08-18T00:59:58+00:00
Why remove this check?

## UkoeHB | 2022-08-18T19:12:22+00:00
No, this was a rebase mistake, will fix.

## UkoeHB | 2022-08-18T19:14:12+00:00
Existing multisig wallets (which have `ready == true`) have no way to recover the post-kex verification message, which may be needed by other signers even after the local signer has done their post-kex verification round.

## UkoeHB | 2022-08-18T19:15:03+00:00
Yes, because existing multisig wallets are stuck, unable to complete the post-kex verification round that was added in v0.18 (an oversight in testing the multisig changes).

## UkoeHB | 2022-08-18T19:15:16+00:00
Existing multisig wallets (which have `ready == true`) have no way to recover the post-kex verification message, which may be needed by other signers even after the local signer has done their post-kex verification round.

## vtnerd | 2022-09-09T01:24:13+00:00
They aren't guaranteed to be stuck though, right? Seems like this would only happen if other signers lost someone's post-kex message? If that could happen, couldn't any of the steps get stuck? I guess that's why the force option was added?

## UkoeHB | 2022-09-09T01:44:17+00:00
The post-kex round did not exist before v0.18, and the only way to get a post-kex message right now is from `exchange_multisig_keys()` as the output of a kex round (but existing accounts already completed their last kex round without getting a post-kex message).

I guess I am overloading this PR a little so we can fix multisig faster, the post-kex stuff isn't directly related to the force update option. However, you need force updating to get your account past the post-kex step if you aren't able to get post-kex messages from all other group members (which may be the case for old accounts).

## UkoeHB | 2022-09-20T23:44:53+00:00
Moved this so `expanded_msgs` is defined right before its use.

# Action History
- Created by: UkoeHB | 2022-05-15T01:49:46+00:00
- Merged at: 2022-09-26T19:47:50+00:00
