---
title: 'Multisig: signature fixes'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8149
author: UkoeHB
assignees: []
labels:
- important
created_at: '2022-01-18T16:23:12+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-09-23T17:00:27+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2022-07-13T04:39:17+00:00'
merged_at: '2022-07-13T04:39:17+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Follow up to PR #8114. I lost contact with the original author two weeks ago.

This PR has the same commits as #8114, with [EDIT: additional commits to address reviewers, fix rebases, and general code quality].

## Summary (added post-merge)

- Fix the Drijvers attack that allows a malicious multisig participant to forge signatures (e.g. construct arbitrary transactions spending the multisig wallet's funds) given the right conditions. Sources: [Drijvers attack](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/417), [ROS solvers](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/945), [MuSig2](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/1261), [multisig proofs](https://eprint.iacr.org/2021/1375), [FROST](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/852). Note that [MRL-0009](https://web.getmonero.org/resources/research-lab/pubs/MRL-0009.pdf) prevented the Drijvers attack with a commit-and-reveal pattern that Monero's existing multisig implementation does not use. The binonce signing approach from MuSig2/etc. is more efficient than commit-and-reveal, hence it was implemented in this PR.
- Fix a nonce-reuse bug that could allow a malicious multisig participant to obtain the private keys of other participants. Source: [hackerone report](link-to-hackerone-report).
- Fix an unvalidated-signing issue, where a malicious multisig participant could obtain a partial signature from other participants on arbitrary messages (e.g. get them to sign transactions whose contents they are unaware of). Source: [hackerone report](link-to-hackerone-report).
    - An entire new tx builder was implemented to resolve this (`src/multisig/signing_protocol.h/.cpp`, largly by copying and slightly modifying code from `construct_tx_with_tx_key()`), because it is necessary for all multisig participants to fully reconstruct the message they are asked to sign.
    - **NOTE**: It is the responsibility of multisig users to fully validate all tx details before signing a multisig transaction (e.g. before calling the RPC method `on_sign_multisig()`). This PR only ensures that when `sign_multisig_tx()` is called, the tx signed actually corresponds to the tx details passed in.


## Possible Future Work

Here are items of work/research related to multisig that are out-of-scope for this PR.

- Multisig core tests should use `set_events()`, but it's blocked by [this PR](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8033).
- Multisig should use aggregation-style signing instead of round-robin-style signing (this does not have an impact on the UX of 2-of-3, but is meaningful when `M < N - 1`).
- It should be possible to make a multisig tx proposal without knowing other signers' nonces in advance (i.e. propose the set of inputs (sources) and outputs (destinations) even with stale/inadequate `export_multisig()` information). The lack of this ability isn't a big UX problem for escrowed 2-of-3 markets, but is sub-optimal for generic use of multisig.
- Currently, if a multisig signing attempt fails due to bad data, it is not practical (or possible, depending on the failure), to identify which participant caused the problem. It would be nice if the multisig protocol could identify and flag bad participants, so they can be excluded from future signing attempts (etc.).
- If a multisig tx proposal is created by an honest participant using weak RNG (a different threat vector than a malicious participant, who can trivially compromise a multisig group's privacy by publicizing everything he knows), this may reduce the privacy of the multisig group (e.g. if outputs aren't randomized well, the change output might be identifiable). It may be worth investigating ways to mitigate that, such as allowing all multisig participants to contribute entropy to tx proposals.


# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2022-01-23T05:14:13+00:00
 Hate to do this to you - drop the `&` here for `i`. Or it can be done trivially post-merge if its easier for everybody.

## vtnerd | 2022-01-25T00:49:50+00:00
A pessismistic `static_assert` can be added (post merge if easier) - 
```c++
static_assert(std::numeric_limits<unsigned int>::max() <= std::numeric_limits<std::uint64_t>::max(), "unsigned int max too large");
```

## vtnerd | 2022-01-25T19:50:43+00:00
Just tagging this as a pointless op in case you want to update, `tx_aux_secret_keys.size()` is always `0` here (due to the clear in the above line).

## vtnerd | 2022-01-27T00:32:32+00:00
This is another useless `&` here (but shouldn't matter in this context).

## vtnerd | 2022-01-27T01:17:55+00:00
I can't believe I missed this before - why is this even split? I'd have to work back through the details, but does this allow someone to recover the real signing index through some trial and error?

My initial thought is that it doesn't - the nonces (for the signature) should make it impossible to recover the original `b` hash value.

----------------

Basically, it seems like this should just be inserting everything in `s` in one shot, I don't see why there needs to be a separate distinct commitment to `l`.

## vtnerd | 2022-01-27T02:51:08+00:00
Or no wait, that value is garbage isn't it?


## vtnerd | 2022-01-27T02:54:33+00:00
Yup, definitely is. Brainfart since first review. I don't see how it could be recovered due to the nonces from each signer.

## UkoeHB | 2022-01-27T03:56:58+00:00
Btw @vtnerd won't the compiler just delete this line? I think I passed by reference so `i` could be memwipable.

EDIT: Nvm, memory-securing the real-spend index would require a lot more work here (if it's even possible). I just removed this line.

## vtnerd | 2022-01-27T19:09:27+00:00
Yup. Its passed around in many functions, and its gotta be difficult already without many more changes.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-04-20T09:49:32+00:00
While b_i is used as a scalar and the identity point is encoded by its y (which is 1), so this is fine, could we not use point values for scalar variables/not write code suggesting b_i will be 0 when that'd break this entire protocol? This may just be a Monero style thing, which I'm unfortunately not up to date on. It doesn't look like we have rct::one() despite having rct::zero()... I'm also hesitant to suggest using d2h here or adding a function to ringct (which uses the I constant, yet with a comment and a name which makes sense) though so I won't stick on this for too long.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-04-20T11:13:46+00:00
This comment doesn't seem to have been properly communicated. Nonces shouldn't be reused at all, not just for this output, as despite having a unique private key per output the factors needed to undo the unique key's derivation are known by the other members of the signing group.

## UkoeHB | 2022-04-20T15:42:32+00:00
I agree it's kinda janky, but imo isn't a problem to solve in this PR.

## UkoeHB | 2022-04-20T20:38:29+00:00
Ok updated the comments, let me know if it's more clear.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-04-21T21:04:31+00:00
LGTM

## kayabaNerve | 2022-05-01T00:06:07+00:00
This if case shouldn't need to exist. We can not communicate the keys and simply always generate them here. That may not be a change worth it, as it's a minor optimization which changes data availability as this code is flowed through (and removes a sanity check while doing so), yet something to consider.

## UkoeHB | 2022-05-01T00:12:04+00:00
The keys have to be transmitted in the `pending_tx` structure. My first attempt at this just sent the entropy, but then I had test failures because there is a `wallet2::sanity_check()` that needs the tx secret keys.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-05-01T04:36:44+00:00
ACK

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-05-11T15:20:06+00:00
This will not be initialized after loading a v0 record. Might be OK in practice, or setting to crypto::null_hash in the early out would be needed.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-05-11T15:37:27+00:00
Why is this cast necessary ?

## UkoeHB | 2022-05-11T20:07:07+00:00
Hmm ok, setting to `crypto::null_skey` then asserting it is not null in the multisig code would be good. By early out do you mean like this?
```
if (version < 1)
{
  multisig_tx_key_entropy = crypto::null_skey;
  return true;
}
FIELD(multisig_tx_key_entropy)
```

## UkoeHB | 2022-05-11T20:12:51+00:00
Don't think it is, will clean up.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-05-11T20:16:43+00:00
Yes (might or might not be better to do the assignment if loading only, I don't really mind either way)

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-10T16:48:41+00:00
I don't see why num_alpha_components is practically variable. While Musig2 does leave it ambiguous, consensus seems to have been practically reached around 2. Leaving this variable potentially poses issues as it's half static, half variable.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-10T16:52:25+00:00
Here, the variable num_alpha_components enables a transcript conflict. A ring of 11 with 3 alpha components has the exact same length as a ring of 12 with 2 alpha components. While, practically, this isn't an issue due to the message hash being based off ring size and therefore shifting if this happens, there's a lack of a clear distinction here with this naive transcript (which I don't mean to criticize on its own as this is consistent with the rest of Monero). Adding 
```
b_params.emplace_back();
encode_int_to_key_le(num_alpha_components, b_params.back());
```
would be appreciated to make num_alpha_components properly sized in this transcript though.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-10T16:53:00+00:00
Using sc_add and doing the scalarmultKey at the end outside of the loop would be more efficient.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-10T16:54:15+00:00
Also, since this binds to the aggregate nonces, mutability is trivial. While this follows MuSig2, FROST not only defined a binomial nonce scheme, yet also transcripted them as `participant, D, E`, removing any chance at mutability. Not an issue here, yet I do believe that'd be an improvement.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-10T16:56:25+00:00
I don't believe we ever check a version 1 struct is used. I assume these fields will be left uninitialized and therefore naturally error without issue, yet may be good to enforce this.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-10T17:03:36+00:00
The CLSAG code calls this c1. While I honestly kind of prefer c0, and it turns out that's the term from the paper, the discrepancy isn't preferred. We also can't change it within the CLSAG code anymore, which is unfortunate.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-10T17:04:27+00:00
I'd hope we could utilize a proper enum here.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-10T17:09:22+00:00
This can be converted into a RNG in a manner similar to tx_secret_key to reduce bandwidth and consolidate code between creator/reconstructors.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-10T17:14:47+00:00
While I understand why this is technically valid, the unlock time has minimal benefit and is largely considered extremely detrimental. Including it here in multisig does not seem beneficial.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-10T17:16:57+00:00
Left over TODO?

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-10T17:20:07+00:00
Do I dare ask what 0 is?

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-27T16:52:15+00:00
I agree it's a little overkill, although from a design standpoint it's nice to have a centralized config parameter instead of a hard-coded value.

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-27T16:58:16+00:00
Musig2 is simpler and there is no concrete reason to change the design at this point.

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-27T17:03:26+00:00
Technically more efficient yes, but negligible in practice. If this were verification code or if it were egregious then I'd change it. I generally prefer legibility over marginal efficiency gains in cases like this.

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-27T17:06:33+00:00
This is the standard pattern for updating serialization versions in this codebase (when the old version is assumed to be deprecated).

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-27T17:07:44+00:00
Although it does make me wonder if this should return false instead, since old stuff won't work anyway.

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-27T17:20:18+00:00
I agree this isn't ideal... however, `c_0` is set here:
```
for (std::size_t i = (l + 1) % n; i != l; i = (i + 1) % n) {
    if (i == 0)
      c_0 = c;
   ...
}
```
So I think `c_0` makes more sense than doubling down on `c1`.

I added a comment about the notation discrepancy.

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-27T17:21:39+00:00
Agree, however the version is defined as an integer upstream so we are kind of stuck in this case.

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-27T17:27:01+00:00
I agree you _can_ do this, and it does reduce bandwidth. I'm not sure it is useful in practice, because the payload size would only shrink by a few hundred bytes at most (in the typical case). The goal here is to get something that works correctly, rather than engineer it into the ideal state.

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-27T17:29:28+00:00
The calling code (wallet2 tx builder) expects timelocks to work as intended by the user (who has to manually specify the unlock time). Deprecating timelocks is a bigger project that's out of scope here.

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-27T17:33:04+00:00
It doesn't exist in the current implementation. IIRC I added the `<=` as defense in depth against bugs.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-27T23:57:45+00:00
This has been resolved with the most recent edits :)

## kayabaNerve | 2022-06-27T23:58:00+00:00
Resolved

# Action History
- Created by: UkoeHB | 2022-01-18T16:23:12+00:00
- Merged at: 2022-07-13T04:39:17+00:00
