---
title: 'zmq: publish submitted txs via zmq'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8427
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-07-10T03:47:22+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-08-23T03:45:31+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2022-08-23T03:45:30+00:00'
merged_at: '2022-08-23T03:45:30+00:00'
---

# Original Description
### Problem

When a daemon is in the "fluff" epoch and a user submits a tx to the daemon, the tx doesn't get published via zmq's `txpool_add`. Reported by @TrasherDK; see logs [1](https://libera.monerologs.net/monero-dev/20220707#c117558-c117568), [2](https://libera.monerologs.net/monero-dev/20220707#c117619-c117634), and [3](https://libera.monerologs.net/monero-dev/20220708#c117725-c117728).

### Solution

Publish "just broadcasted" txs via zmq.

Of note, the test I added hangs waiting to receive txs that never come over zmq with the code from before this PR.

### Deeper context

- upon tx submission, [`handle_incoming_tx` is called with `relay_method:local`](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/8f48f464957c875af3183cd9d35769592e1aef48/src/rpc/core_rpc_server.cpp#L1258) with no knowledge of the daemon's fluff/stem epoch status or tx propagation method.
- zmq doesn't publish the tx [since the tx has not broadcasted yet](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/9f814edbd78c70c70b814ca934c1ddef58768262/src/cryptonote_core/cryptonote_core.cpp#L1107-L1108) (and therefore is not visible in the pool).
- the daemon then ["fluffs" the tx](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/8f48f464957c875af3183cd9d35769592e1aef48/src/rpc/core_rpc_server.cpp#L1302) and updates its relay status in the db via [`on_transactions_relayed`](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/9a124f681119855949f6406ecd69c2ad91da9770/src/cryptonote_protocol/levin_notify.cpp#L573) making the tx visible to anyone who queries the daemon.
- it's possible no other daemons reflect the tx back to the daemon, which means `handle_incoming_txs` doesn't get called a second time after the initial submission (which is particularly unique to the "fluff" flow).
- even if daemons *do* reflect the tx back to the daemon, since the tx has already updated its relay status to a broadcasted state, it won't publish to zmq since [this `already_have` will be true](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/8f48f464957c875af3183cd9d35769592e1aef48/src/cryptonote_core/cryptonote_core.cpp#L1086).

With the above context in mind, I think `on_transactions_relayed` is the best place to pub txs in this circumstance because:

1. It's the point we know txs are just set to be broadcasted, and become visible/query-able in the pool.
2. It's not guaranteed `handle_incoming_txs` will get called again after the node broadcasts the tx.
3. Even if `handle_incoming_txs` does get called once the node broadcasts the tx, we don't know if the tx was "just broadcasted" or if we're handling a tx we already knew about that we already pub'd via zmq.
4. It seems quite challenging to pass something into `handle_incoming_tx` on the initial submission to make it aware of the relay mechanism that will subsequently be used when the tx is ultimately relayed. Although it seems like it would be safe for "fluff" txs to be immediately visible in the db on initial submission during the "fluff" epoch (and to push them over zmq immediately), the way the relay code is structured, it would take a larger overhaul to safely implement that approach to avoid doing so for "stem" txs.


# Discussion History
## SChernykh | 2022-07-10T17:49:54+00:00
It should check that `tx_hashes`, `txs`, `just_broadcasted` have the same size as `tx_blobs` and return false if they don't match.

## SChernykh | 2022-07-10T17:59:55+00:00
Also, 
```
if (!m_zmq_pub)
    return true;
```
because this function is a no-op and can early out when there's no ZMQ pub.

## SChernykh | 2022-07-10T18:02:32+00:00
It doesn't check that `just_broadcasted` is empty, so it can `emplace_back` in the wrong places in the loop.
```
if (!just_broadcasted.empty())
    just_broadcasted.clear();
```

## j-berman | 2022-07-11T00:03:10+00:00
Good defense, done

## j-berman | 2022-07-11T00:03:16+00:00
Done

## vtnerd | 2022-07-18T00:10:51+00:00
You shouldn't be able to actually move these objects, its a `const` view of the transactions. I think this just results in the copy-constructor being called (which is annoying as the compiler doesn't actively complain).

Same thing on next line.

## vtnerd | 2022-07-18T00:29:39+00:00
This `if` is unnecessary.

## vtnerd | 2022-07-18T00:33:45+00:00
And indeed, [this just results in a copy](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/28595117/why-can-we-use-stdmove-on-a-const-object). I have such a love/hate for C++.

## vtnerd | 2022-07-18T00:49:49+00:00
I think you should add:
```c++
if (std::count(just_broadcasted.begin(), just_broadcasted.end(), std::size_t(0)) == 0)
  return true;
```
as another quick out optimization.

## SChernykh | 2022-07-18T05:13:14+00:00
What @vtnerd probably meant to say that `just_broadcasted.clear();` can just be called without the `if` with the same end result.

## j-berman | 2022-07-18T18:59:07+00:00
Ya this was odd of me to leave as is. Will fix.

## j-berman | 2022-07-19T00:09:41+00:00
Perhaps there is still a misunderstanding, but if not, I think you meant a truthy 3rd param :) If the count of "just broadcasted" txs is 0, then we have nothing to publish. But if the count of txs that were **not** "just broadcasted" is 0, then there may still be some "just broadcasted" that we need to publish

I think the test should make it clear it should be truthy too; it hangs with a falsey 3rd param

## SChernykh | 2022-07-19T06:15:20+00:00
```
if (std::count(just_broadcasted.begin(), just_broadcasted.end(), true) == 0)
  return true;
```

## j-berman | 2022-07-19T06:34:05+00:00
Right, I think you meant that^ @vtnerd 

See the latest

## vtnerd | 2022-07-21T17:55:18+00:00
Correct, the STL code has to do this check basically anyway internally.

## vtnerd | 2022-07-21T17:56:39+00:00
Yes, I was doing this from memory quickly and forgot the API. Mine didn't make any sense.

## vtnerd | 2022-07-21T17:58:20+00:00
This never changed, but I don't think its a big deal (other than being slightly deceptive). It probably makes sense just to leave it, because if the `const`ness of the function ever changes this function call changes (although I think `transasction` does not have a proper `move` function).

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2022-07-10T03:47:22+00:00
- Merged at: 2022-08-23T03:45:30+00:00
