---
title: Add view tags to outputs to reduce wallet scanning time
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8061
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-11-15T14:15:25+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-08-04T09:47:20+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2022-04-20T03:14:48+00:00'
merged_at: '2022-04-20T03:14:48+00:00'
---

# Original Description
## Overview

Implements view tags as proposed by @UkoeHB in in MRL issue https://github.com/monero-project/research-lab/issues/73

At tx construction, the sender adds a 1-byte view tag to each output. The view tag is derived from the sender-receiver shared secret (view tag = first byte of hash(shared secret) . When scanning for outputs, the receiver can check the view tag for a match in order to reduce scanning time. When the view tag matches (expected match 1/256 outputs), the wallet proceeds to derive the output public key to check if the output belongs to the receiver. When the view tag does not match, the wallet avoids the more expensive EC operations when deriving the output public key.<sup>1</sup> In tests on my machine, I saw reductions in scanning time upwards of 40% (and a minimum around 30%).

Update: switched to using `cn_fast_hash` to hash the shared secret (edit: see discussion [below](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8061#issuecomment-970549760) for more on this choice)
~~As suggested by @UkoeHB, the shared secret is hashed using [SipHash](https://github.com/veorq/SipHash) 2-4 (the default), a keyed hash function that is specifically designed to protect a secret key and yield collisions, and is speedier than `cn_fast_hash`.~~

In order to maintain transaction uniformity, view tags are not supported until the fork height. After the fork height, all outputs *must* have a view tag. There is a grace period that allows both types at the fork height which allows the pool to clear without kicking tx's people create right at the fork height.

<sup>1</sup> It's expected the skippable EC operations would be skipped for approximately 99.6% of outputs  (expected false positive rate = 1/2<sup>8</sup> = 1/256 = 0.4%, therefore expected negative rate = 100% - 0.4% = 99.6%). This is why 1 byte is the optimal sweet spot for max performance gains without needing more bytes. Skipping just 0.4% more outputs does not yield noticeable gains.

## Choices I made worth pointing out

For starters, I thought through various approaches deeply, and settled on what I feel is the sanest one. However, I'm absolutely prepared to refactor if necessary. I understand the various sections of the code that touch this fairly well enough at this point, would be happy to refactor if there is a stronger approach.

### Added a new `tx_out_to_tagged_key` boost variant type, to replace `tx_out_to_key` at the next fork height

This was likely the most significant choice I made. It seemed to be the most sensible way to fit view tags into the code without introducing overly cumbersome structural changes across the code. I think the biggest issue with this approach is in JSON parsing. Example: on the chain today (with no view tags), the `tx.vout` target serializes to JSON as follows:

```JSON
{ 
  "target": {
    "key": "ea3f..."
  }
}
```

In this PR, at the fork height when view tags are set to be supported, the `tx.vout` target starts serializing to JSON as follows:

```JSON
{ 
  "target": {
    "tagged_key": {
      "key": "ea3f...",
      "view_tag": "a1"
    }
  }
}
```

This will be a breaking change for anyone who was relying on `target.key`, which I figure isn't ideal. I figure ideally it would instead serialize to the following:

```JSON
{ 
  "target": {
    "key": "ea3f...",
    "view_tag": "a1"
  }
}
```

Since view tags aren't strictly necessary when reading for the key, it seemed ideal to maintain the prior JSON structure if possible, and not force people to change how they consume the JSON object downstream if they don't need to. But I couldn't get this ideal approach working in a clean way. Perhaps I'm missing something simple.

Generally very much so open to thoughts on this `tx_out_to_tagged_key` approach.

### 2 pre-rct tests aren't working

There are 2 pre-rct tests meant to test view tags on pre-rct outputs *after* the fork height that aren't working, because the tests aren't set up to support pre-rct outputs past v12, and I felt I spent enough time trying to get them to work. I tested it manually by mining pre-rct outputs, and calling `sweep_unmixable` after the fork height and scanning for them in a wallet making sure they used the view tags as expected, and they did. I figure priority-wise makes sense to move back over to binning/decoy selection work over getting these 2 minor tests working at this point. I added 15 working tests in total, not including those 2 pre-rct ones.

## Still to-do

- There will be some merge conflicts with #7170. I'm happy to take care of them.
- Update `blockchain_utilities` for `tx_out_to_tagged_key`.
- anything else?

EDIT: clarified choice to use siphash + description of view tags

# Discussion History
## UkoeHB | 2021-11-15T19:11:16+00:00
```suggestion

  void crypto_ops::derive_view_tag(const key_derivation &derivation, size_t output_index, view_tag &view_tag) {
    char hash[8 + ((sizeof(size_t) * 8 + 6) / 7)] = "view_tag";  // start with view tag domain-separator
    char view_tag_full[8]; // siphash result will be 8 bytes
    char siphash_key[16];
    char* end = hash + 8;
    tools::write_varint(end, output_index);  // add output index (and overwrite null terminator of domain-separator)
    assert(end <= hash + 8 + sizeof(converted_index));
    for (std::size_t i{0}; i < 16; ++i)
        siphash_key[i] = derivation.data[i];
    // view_tag_full = H[siphash_key](salt, output_index)
    siphash(hash, end - hash, siphash_key, view_tag_full, 8);
    memwipe(siphash_key, 16);
    view_tag = view_tag_full[0];  // only need the first byte to realize optimal perf/space efficiency
  }
```

Only one hash is needed. Also, `uint8_t` is 8 bits, not 8 bytes.

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-15T19:46:43+00:00
Is it necessary to return a pointer here? View tags are simple chars, so copies are very cheap.

EDIT: I see how it is used... the `null` case carries extra information. I think this is fine in the context of the existing code.

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-15T19:50:37+00:00
```suggestion
        CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES(o.target.type() == typeid(txout_to_key), false, "wrong variant type... "
          << "only txout_to_key is supported in transaction id=" << get_transaction_hash(tx));
      }
```

Pre-fork should only care about pre-fork things.

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-15T20:00:15+00:00
Isn't `14` the next hardfork? Is this PR being aimed at a summer hardfork? Maybe @selsta can chime in.

## selsta | 2021-11-15T20:02:24+00:00
According to https://github.com/monero-project/monero#scheduled-software-upgrades we currently are on v14

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-15T20:06:30+00:00
1. Should this code be checking if the types of `o.target` are all valid? What happens if there is an unknown target type?
2. I think it would be cleaner to separate the `&&` operands here. It is kind of sketchy to have one part of an expression depend on another part of the expression (even if logically valid).

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-15T20:09:20+00:00
```suggestion
      uint64_t amount = out_amounts[no];
      summary_amounts += amount;
```

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-15T20:14:49+00:00
Is there an advantage to `AUTO_VAL_INIT()` over uniform initialization (C++11)?
```
crypto::view_tag view_tag{};
```

Does it even need to be initialized here?

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-15T20:24:07+00:00
Ah, because the default value can't be used with an explicit `use_view_tags`. These function signatures are disturbing, but that's not your fault.

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-15T20:46:35+00:00
```suggestion
bool wallet2::is_out_to_acc(const cryptonote::account_public_address &address, const crypto::public_key& out_key, const crypto::key_derivation &derivation, const std::vector<crypto::key_derivation> &additional_derivations, const size_t output_index, crypto::key_derivation &found_derivation, const crypto::view_tag const *view_tag) const
```
A const pointer to a const view tag (i.e. document that the function won't change the pointer by marking it const).

## j-berman | 2021-11-15T21:37:38+00:00
This check didn't exist before, so I didn't add it. There are still the other 2 types `txout_to_script` and `txout_to_scripthash` that this would prevent at this stage, although those types [can't even be added to lmdb](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/6d94953be259c6bf4a1407ec552a570a66b6179d/src/blockchain_db/lmdb/db_lmdb.cpp#L1048-L1049) -- so maybe makes sense to add this check on these grounds?

EDIT: Sorry, nevermind. It's right here: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a9cb4c082f1a815076674b543d93159a2137540e/src/cryptonote_basic/cryptonote_format_utils.cpp#L807

My thinking at this stage was to play it be more conservative not needing to think about the other types here. But this seems sensible to add here, will do.

## j-berman | 2021-11-15T21:48:00+00:00
>1. Should this code be checking if the types of o.target are all valid? What happens if there is an unknown target type?

My thinking was maintain the logic of what it's currently doing (check for valid public keys), and enforce expected type elsewhere (as is currently done in `check_outs_valid` and when adding an output to LMDB). I'll dig deeper to see if it's definitively ok to enforce the exact type here.

> 2. I think it would be cleaner to separate the && operands here.

Fair

## j-berman | 2021-11-15T21:50:39+00:00
(I was looking here: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a9cb4c082f1a815076674b543d93159a2137540e/src/hardforks/hardforks.cpp)

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-15T22:13:32+00:00
This logic branch doesn't know about `txout_to_tagged_key`, since `txout_to_tagged_key` doesn't show up until `HF_VERSION_VIEW_TAGS`.

## j-berman | 2021-11-15T22:31:02+00:00
Sorry wasn't very clear what I meant. 2 of the 3 callers to this function are not near to any other functions that require the `txout_to_key` type (e.g. currently `blockchain.cpp::check_tx_outputs` doesn't require outputs have the `txout_to_key` type). So I didn't want to add logic requiring `txout_to_key` in this code path because of that. But like mentioned [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8061#discussion_r749706312), maybe this is ok to do. I'll do more digging on it

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-15T22:55:26+00:00
Any logic branch that depends on a hardfork is in that hardfork's 'domain', regardless of context. Since `txout_to_key` is the only type that should exist in hardforks pre-`HF_VERSION_VIEW_TAGS`, that is what should be enforced. Redundant type checks are fine.

## j-berman | 2021-11-15T23:14:02+00:00
My only concern was if `txout_to_script` and `txout_to_scripthash` have or can be used for something, and should make it past this logic branch (and perhaps fail elsewhere). That's what I was going to dig into to. I assume not, but didn't want to take a chance if that assumption was incorrect

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-15T23:28:03+00:00
Ah gotcha

## j-berman | 2021-11-16T07:38:10+00:00
The more I sit with this, the less safe it feels. @selsta 's perf tests (that were passing on my machine) [are failing](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8061#issuecomment-969508340) because of UB I introduced from passing a pointer to a locally scoped view tag (specifically in that test). I'd rather not pass around a pointer, just in case a situation like that arises. I was following this pattern for commitments in `add_output`:

https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/6d94953be259c6bf4a1407ec552a570a66b6179d/src/blockchain_db/blockchain_db.cpp#L245

But that's isolated to a single function call, rather than spread out across various locations in the code through a helper function.

Thinking I'll instead return a `std::pair<bool, crytpo::view_tag>`, and the bool indicates whether or not the view tag is usable. Seems a little heavy, but safer + more explicit about the extra information tied to the view tag

EDIT: or better yet, a boost optional type

## j-berman | 2021-11-16T07:46:00+00:00
EDIT: nevermind below. Sorry, no. It doesn't even need to be initialized. Unnecessary of me. I'm just going to declare it normally

~~Was following the pattern from higher up in the function. But, no I don't believe there is an advantage in this case, especially considering the purpose of `AUTO_VAL_INIT` as I understand it is to use a consistent initialization across compilers, yet view tags are initialized elsewhere in the code without it. Probably was unnecessary on my part. I don't have a preference, I don't mind switching to uniform initialization.~~

~~It needs to be initialized at the same scope as `set_tx_out` a bit below.~~

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-16T13:15:48+00:00
Update the comment and add an assert that view tag size <= 8.

## UkoeHB | 2021-11-16T13:20:28+00:00
Note for future reference: [use](https://www.cprogramming.com/c++11/c++11-nullptr-strongly-typed-enum-class.html) `nullptr` instead of `NULL`.

## j-berman | 2021-11-16T13:50:11+00:00
outdated now that I switched to boost optional type

## j-berman | 2021-11-18T01:55:19+00:00
Ok, check out the latest commit [9d9d2c](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8061/commits/9d9d2c613caeeba1076e0a34d12b50a4bc161f53). It's now enforcing exact expected types on the outputs here and in `check_output_types` (I checked that this should be ok pretty thoroughly).

To answer this question:

> What happens if there is an unknown target type?

Assuming you meant a type not defined in the boost variant, it won't parse. Current nodes won't be able to parse blocks or transaction blobs that have view tags, since to those nodes, the outputs are of an unknown target type

## j-berman | 2021-11-18T01:55:35+00:00
Done

## jtgrassie | 2021-11-18T14:54:20+00:00
The `message` parameter is only optional since c++17 and the codebase required minimum is c++14.

## UkoeHB | 2021-12-05T02:57:18+00:00
Does batching impose a cost when view tags are not in play? I am a bit confused how there could be a noticeable performance hit from batching these calls.

On second thought, maybe it is because you are pushing back into a vector without first reserving any capacity... I imagine 100+ reallocations are gonna hurt.

## j-berman | 2021-12-09T08:29:04+00:00
I saw a small (1-3%) perf hit scanning the whole chain when batching pre-view tags (reproduced on one of @gingeropolous' machines as well, thank you @gingeropolous).

I added `.reserve(num_txes)` to the vector to prevent it needing to resize -- it had no noticeable impact, but makes sense to add. See [this commit](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8061/commits/54231ebed3269873dd49ec229b86ff94a62e31c2).

_____

My hypothesis: because pre-view tag batches are so much slower to process, it ends up processing across fewer threads for longer. Imagine 1300 tx's in a set of blocks to process, 100 tx's per batch, 8 threads. The first 8 batches process roughly around the same time, then you have 5 batches remaining divided across 5 threads, which leaves 3 threads unused while the 5 remaining batches process slowly.

So, it would follow that submitting individual function calls to the thread pool seems to better allocate work across the available threads when the function being called is slow.

I tried exploring this theory further by calculating batch size relative to the number of threads available on the machine (instead of a fixed batch size) with no luck (this slowed it down, both on my machine and @Gingeropolous '). It feels worth exploring deeper at a future date I think. Here's what I tried for reference:

```
size_t TARGET_NUM_BATCHES_PER_THREAD = 100; // also tried 10
size_t max_concurrency = tpool.get_max_concurrency();
size_t num_batches = max_concurrency > 1 ? (TARGET_NUM_BATCHES_PER_THREAD * max_concurrency) : 1;
size_t geniods_per_batch = std::ceil(geniods.size() / static_cast<double>(num_batches));
```

Overall, I've consistently found that the approach in the PR as it is now empirically seems to be the best hybrid of fastest and simplest I could come up with, at least on the machines I've tested on.

EDIT: an alternative approach I explored is separating the view tag check from the output ownership check. So first iterate over all the outputs and check the view tag for *possible* outputs owned by the account. Then, iterate over the subset of possibles and derive output pub keys. It's a more complex structure to fit into the code, and I didn't find a speed increase from this approach.

## UkoeHB | 2021-12-10T04:23:59+00:00
I wonder if there is overhead from first collecting all the geniods, then batching them. What if every time you collect batch_size txs, you dispatch them to the thread pool? (you might need a std::move() to send them in, so you can make a new variable on the next loop)

## j-berman | 2021-12-13T23:48:44+00:00
Tried it [here](https://github.com/j-berman/monero/pull/4) and didn't observe a difference from first collecting then batching (EDIT: clarifying, I observed the same % slow down from batching when scanning the whole chain with this approach). It doesn't feel as clean code-wise to me, I could probably make it cleaner.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-21T16:57:17+00:00
With this complicated construct instead of `a & x.data;` do you want to be prepared for view tags that are possibly more than 1 character in the future?

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-21T17:04:38+00:00
After our "two hardforks in rapid succession" discussion with a "grace period" as result this is one point where it will get a little more complicated, right?

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-21T17:09:24+00:00
I am suddenly not sure myself anymore, but isn't it custom to pass almost **any** structured and/or somewhat larger things with `const &` instead of only `const`, like e.g. here `output_public_key`?

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-21T17:54:24+00:00
Seems to me that the way you check now only allows for the two output types that you support, but not other ones that with the old code are just skipped if I read the code correctly. Is that so, are `txout_to_script` and `txout_to_scripthash` dead for good?

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-21T18:03:39+00:00
Just a question that popped up in my mind: Do hardware wallets need now modifications in their tx building code as well, to compute and include view tags?

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-21T18:05:06+00:00
Question already answered: A little further down I saw that you already updated the Ledger code yourself.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-21T18:12:44+00:00
Can this change in serialization make any things stored in files suddenly and unexpectedly invalid? And make them unrecoverable / unusable that way? Did you get an overwiew when working on this PR?

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-21T18:15:08+00:00
Maybe a matter of taste but I would probably balk when my mind came up with such a long name, and start to search for something shorter :)

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-21T18:20:21+00:00
Forget this comment - I saw now that this is for tests, and because there are so many of them, and such specific ones, you need long names.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-21T18:24:56+00:00
Positively comforting and reassuring how seriously you test here!

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-21T18:26:59+00:00
What's the idea behind this method, in contrast to directly use the constant in code?

## j-berman | 2022-01-21T19:42:18+00:00
Was following the pattern for the other crypto classes right above, I figure deviating from the pattern is more complicated than not

I'd guess the intention with the pattern is to avoid referencing `data` to maintain a higher level abstraction when working with the crypto classes across the code base (there seems to be a conscious effort *not* to reference `data` with the others in other places in the code), but I don't know for sure

## j-berman | 2022-01-21T19:42:39+00:00
Yep, precisely. I plan to change to:

```
if (hf_version < HF_VERSION_VIEW_TAGS)
   require tx_out_to_key
else if (hf_version > HF_VERSION_VIEW_TAGS)
   require tx_out_to_tagged_key
else if (hf_version == HF_VERSION_VIEW_TAGS)
   require tx_out_to_key || tx_out_to_tagged_key
```

I'll also update `hardforks.cpp` to have both a version 15 and version 16, and will add some tests for this behavior.

Probably makes sense for the `== HF_VERSION_VIEW_TAGS` case to require all outputs in the tx to be of the same type too, just so it doesn't allow for weird deviations from expected behavior

## j-berman | 2022-01-21T19:43:03+00:00
You're right I'll update to `const &`

## j-berman | 2022-01-21T19:43:26+00:00
That's correct.

This is worth double checking, but I scanned the entire chain to make sure there are no `txout_to_script` or `txout_to_scripthash` types in the chain already, and made sure they can't be added to the chain. There are 2 things in the existing code that prevent them from being added ([1](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a9cb4c082f1a815076674b543d93159a2137540e/src/cryptonote_basic/cryptonote_format_utils.cpp#L807), [2](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/6d94953be259c6bf4a1407ec552a570a66b6179d/src/blockchain_db/lmdb/db_lmdb.cpp#L1048-L1049)).

I also had a similar hesitation on this as you, which is why I checked the above before making the change -- can see discussion on it with koe [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8061#discussion_r749644658) and [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8061#discussion_r749634449).

Edit: forgot to mention I also synced from scratch with this code without issue

## j-berman | 2022-01-21T19:45:28+00:00
Would definitely be nice to test on hardware wallets if someone has them available for testing

## j-berman | 2022-01-21T19:45:55+00:00
Made sure to get the edges `00` and `ff` :)

## j-berman | 2022-01-21T19:46:09+00:00
I'm not sure tbh, just figured makes sense to follow the pattern as with the others above. My guess is that you can change the name of the constant if needed more easily.. I don't know

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-23T13:57:55+00:00
Good idea to check for the same type for all outputs of a transaction.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-23T14:17:01+00:00
I wonder whether we have to check for error in `tx_scan_info[i].error` after each call here like we do a few lines up for `tx_scan_info[0].error`. Maybe it's not necessary, maybe it's a slight omission already present in the old code.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-23T14:20:29+00:00
I can answer my own question: That gets checked only a few lines further down in code. Therefore no issue.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-23T15:44:33+00:00
Just an idea: You have some nice comments in the called `out_can_be_to_acc` method itself already about the general working principle of the view tags, but because this here is the crucial `wallet2` method where the core of the new wonderful magic sits, maybe you could add some comments here as well.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-23T15:54:33+00:00
Unfortunately I can't figure out where these 25 lines of deleted code went, what replaced them or how they became entirely superfluous. (It's the only such deleted block that I can't place, I understood the others.)

## j-berman | 2022-01-25T08:23:14+00:00
This deleted code would only run when the machine it's executing on has >1 thread available, otherwise it would fall through to the else, where it does the same thing but synchronously.

The function that executes in parallel in this deleted code is `check_acc_out_precomp_once` (and buried inside there is the magic function `is_out_to_acc_precomp` that view tags speed up a whole bunch). The only time `is_out_to_acc_precomp` actually executes inside this call to `check_acc_out_precomp_once` is when it's processing new transactions that show up in the pool. So, it's safe to say that this section of the code would primarily be used to process new transactions with outputs that have view tags that show up in the pool.

I found that because checking view tags speeds up the output ownership check so drastically, that the overhead from threads outweighs the benefit you get from threading, *unless* you submit large batches into the thread pool (as is done with `geniod` when parsing existing blocks in the chain when syncing -- see that comment I left close to the geniods). Since each tx in the pool has a max of 16 outputs, and most have 2, then this code in practice would actually be *slower* than just executing synchronously. So I deleted it, to fall through to the else.

## j-berman | 2022-01-26T00:19:00+00:00
You are right, this presents an issue worth discussing. Still looking into the full ramifications. Here's what I have so far:

AFAICT this serialization change renders exported txs incompatible across versions, and in particular: unsigned tx's. Even before the fork height, this would affect multisig, offline signing, and hw wallets relying on passing around unsigned tx's between wallet software and hw wallet (all of them? edit: reading through the code, it looks like Trezor would definitely be affected, but not sure about others). For example, I can't export tx's from an older wallet and sign with a newer wallet or vise versa, multisig participants must all be using the same wallet version, a user must use a compatible hw wallet and wallet software etc. 

I'm not sure of a way around this issue. Unfortunately the pattern that seems like it could have been used to minimize the damage of a breaking issue like this with the other nearby structs isn't present on this struct (the `VERSION_FIELD`). Looks like that pattern was implemented later on after this struct was already set in stone. Probably makes sense to use this as an opportunity to add a `VERSION_FIELD` here too for future breaking changes on this struct.

I'm also not sure if this would break more things I'm not seeing (possibly the RPC wallet -- still looking into it EDIT: just need to be sure a client passing unsigned transactions to to the RPC wallet is passing compatible versions).
_______

For the record, I could update to the new code using an existing old wallet file, no issue. After receiving tx's with view tags, I can't load the wallet file with the older software version. Figure that's expected.

## j-berman | 2022-01-27T09:23:26+00:00
Update: exhaustively investigating a way to not cause a breaking change here in the least hacky way possible (EDIT: am cautiously optimistic)

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-27T09:28:30+00:00
Splendid!

I am not sure yet whether I will just wait for your results, or play around with this a little myself as well. I learned a thing or two about that serialization stuff when analyzing the tag serialization question and may also try something just for learning more, maybe tomorrow.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-28T07:51:34+00:00
What I ask myself right now after a closer look: Why is that new field `use_view_tags` needed and essential in the first place? As far as I could see it will only gets used later when signing. What can go wrong if we drop this field here (again), and when the time to sign finally comes, maybe much later, we make an independent and **fresh** decision only then whether to use / generate a view tag or not for the final, fully constructed tx?

Thus I put up one of those "Change my mind" meme signs: I clain we don't need this. Change my mind :)

## j-berman | 2022-01-28T08:01:39+00:00
When offline signing e.g., you don't know what height the chain is at and can't query for it because you're offline, so you don't know if the tx needs view tags or not. This is the design functionality the downstream consumers of this struct maintain. It's gotta be there at some level so they know unfortunately.

I'm rounding out testing of what I think is a solid implementation now, almost done :)

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-28T08:22:06+00:00
Good argument, but in this case I am confused: If the software that signs offline does not know the chain height, how does it know what tx version to use for tx construction? I mean tx version on a much more fundamental level than just view tags yes/no, with ring size, range proof type to use, etc. Is this all contained somewhere in this construction data?

And if yes, wouldn't it be possible for you to "piggy-back" somewhere there, e.g. checking `RCTConfig.range_proof_type`?

But yeah, if you really find a good way to extend this in a compatible way and even sneak in a `VERSION_FIELD` without really breaking anything there would be no need to resort to little hacks like banking on the fact that the range proofs will change as well with this hardfork.

## j-berman | 2022-01-29T23:29:00+00:00
[Here it is :)](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8061/commits/3f5e3486ae82a850712537bd47f73a91cc8e3b82)

I asked @moneromooo-monero  if they think there's a good way to avoid the break. moo suggested going with the breaking change as it originally was before this change, and adding a `VERSION_FIELD` to this struct for future changes. But, moo also came up this super clever idea to not cause a break, and I really like it.

I think this idea is the best maneuver to avoid a breaking change; I didn't think of anything close to as nice.

Its downside is that the serialized `use_rct` field is changing types from `bool` to `uint8_t`, and is now re-interpreted as `construction_flags` in the code (which confusingly, includes `use_rct` as one of the flags in addition to `use_view_tags` now). This naming inconsistency will naturally be a little confusing, and the `construction_flags` type is less intuitive than using booleans, but I'm not seeing issues with this. Wallets need to support view tags when the fork comes, so I figure they will need to update to use this new type in the correct way to be ready for the fork anyway. In the meantime, compatibility for users who don't update won't be broken right when v0.18.0.0 is released.

Simply breaking the struct would avoid the downsides with this `construction_flags` approach, and allows us to potentially incur some cost today for a better future. But, with such a large change on the horizon in Seraphis, perhaps we save our breaking change energy for that.

I'm fine with reverting + adding `VERSION_FIELD` if this case is weak. I don't want to hold up view tags much longer over this.
_________

> If the software that signs offline does not know the chain height, how does it know what tx version to use for tx construction? ... Is this all contained somewhere in this construction data?

Yep

https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/9aab19f349433687c7aaf2c1cbc5751e5912c0aa/src/cryptonote_core/cryptonote_tx_utils.cpp#L220

That `rct` is the `use_rct` boolean

> wouldn't it be possible for you to "piggy-back" somewhere there, e.g. checking RCTConfig.range_proof_type

Problem with this is we still support `use_view_tags` true and `use_rct` false, i.e. can still make tx's without the range proof type set (`sweep_unmixable` in the CLI will do this)

One solution I was exploring was relying on `rct_config`'s `VERSION_FIELD` and placing `use_view_tags` in there. I don't like it because `rct_config` is used across RingCT code, and it would be confusing to place anything to do with view tags inside there because it doesn't have anything to do with RingCT.

## rbrunner7 | 2022-01-30T09:29:48+00:00
I think with this you managed to implement a solution that works and that is not too "hacky".

I tested it myself with a hot and a cold wallet and could watch it work in the debugger.

Congrats :)

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-01-30T19:15:14+00:00
You may want to disable auto alignment since the whole struct is hashed below, though it should be ok in practice

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-01-30T19:21:52+00:00
Could do without testing twice.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-01-30T19:48:29+00:00
Unclear whether this calls a function every loop, might be worth caching.get_view_tag_fork() as it's triival.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-01-30T19:49:44+00:00
determining a fast negative ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-01-30T19:51:32+00:00
Probably doesn't matter much given the definition, but... const ref ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-01-30T20:04:05+00:00
Can be a ref

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-01-30T20:05:39+00:00
That one can be in the if (which can also have, eg: if (out_key == derived_out_key) { found = true; found_derivation = dervation); }

(I probably wrote it that way in the first place)

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-01-30T20:06:55+00:00
The const does not seem to need removing

## j-berman | 2022-01-31T04:03:03+00:00
moneromoo's idea can't take credit :) I thought it was neat too

## UkoeHB | 2022-02-14T18:42:39+00:00
```suggestion
  if (!get_output_public_key(tx_output, output_public_key))
    throw0(DB_ERROR("Could not get an output public key from a tx output."));
```
This error message couples you to the implementation of `get_output_public_key()`.

## UkoeHB | 2022-02-14T19:36:58+00:00
```suggestion
          LOG_PRINT_L1("Failed to get output public key for output " << n << " in tx " << get_transaction_hash(tx));
```
More error msg decoupling.

## UkoeHB | 2022-02-14T19:39:35+00:00
```suggestion
      CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES(get_output_public_key(out, output_public_key), false, "Failed to get output public key (output type: "
        << out.target.type().name() << "), in transaction id=" << get_transaction_hash(tx));
```
Ditto

## UkoeHB | 2022-02-14T19:42:20+00:00
Could add an error message to this branch if you want implementation-specific error details (maybe at a higher log level).

## UkoeHB | 2022-02-14T19:49:38+00:00
```suggestion
  void set_tx_out(const uint64_t amount, const crypto::public_key& output_public_key, const bool use_view_tags, const crypto::view_tag& view_tag, tx_out& out)
```
Consistent semantics for this file

## UkoeHB | 2022-02-14T19:55:13+00:00
```suggestion
      else  //(hf_version == HF_VERSION_VIEW_TAGS)
```
Little clarification of intent. You could also make the conditionals chronological (easier to navigate).

## UkoeHB | 2022-02-14T20:10:11+00:00
```suggestion
      CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES(get_output_public_key(o, output_public_key), false, "unable to get output public key from transaction out" );
```

## UkoeHB | 2022-02-14T21:10:06+00:00
```suggestion
  void set_tx_out(const uint64_t amount, const crypto::public_key& output_public_key, const bool use_view_tags, const crypto::view_tag& view_tag, tx_out& out);
```

## UkoeHB | 2022-02-14T21:10:42+00:00
```suggestion
  bool get_output_public_key(const cryptonote::tx_out& out, crypto::public_key& output_public_key);
```

## UkoeHB | 2022-02-14T21:11:03+00:00
```suggestion
  bool get_output_public_key(const cryptonote::tx_out& out, crypto::public_key& output_public_key)
```

## UkoeHB | 2022-02-14T21:36:32+00:00
```suggestion
          error::wallet_internal_error, "Unable to get output public key from output");
```

## UkoeHB | 2022-02-14T21:56:52+00:00
I'm a bit confused why inheritance is needed here, as opposed to a simple member variable. It's a commonly used pattern in this directory and just a test, so no need to change. But... dubious lol. Composition via inheritance instead of member variables makes it harder to reason about the shape/content of an object.

Also, the base class doesn't even have a virtual destructor...

## j-berman | 2022-02-16T08:39:30+00:00
I agree with your assessment. @ antoniojuarez, what were you thinking?!?

Lol, maybe more worth a future PR to update all tests

## SChernykh | 2022-03-29T13:08:01+00:00
Did you check that all historical tx outputs are of type txout_to_key? You can check by syncing the node running this code from scratch.

## j-berman | 2022-03-29T17:16:34+00:00
Yep + I synced from scratch running this code. Going to try it again to be safe.

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2021-11-15T14:15:25+00:00
- Merged at: 2022-04-20T03:14:48+00:00
