---
title: 'wallet: respect frozen key images in multisig wallets'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8904
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2023-06-12T06:33:42+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-04-27T19:39:53+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2023-07-07T02:38:12+00:00'
merged_at: '2023-07-07T02:38:12+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Before this change, if a multisig peer asked you to sign a transaction with a frozen enote, the wallet will do it without any error or warning. This change makes it so that wallets will refuse to sign multisig transactions with frozen enotes.

Disclaimer: This PR was generously funded by @LocalMonero.

# Discussion History
## UkoeHB | 2023-06-12T20:06:05+00:00
Why was this change added? Is there some security issue? Based on the name of the function I wouldn't expect it to fail on partial key images (not that anyone is going to use this function in that way).

## jeffro256 | 2023-06-12T20:40:58+00:00
It theoretically shouldn't change the behavior, just provide a better error message on failure. Before this change, it would also fail if we matched a partial key image since we skip those transfers anyways but the error message would be "key image not found". 

## jeffro256 | 2023-06-12T20:43:58+00:00
The only time there would be a difference is if there was a wallet bug where a partial key image was marked as "known", or a full key image was marked as "partial". Inside the `process_new_transaction`, `m_key_image_known` is set as `!m_watch_only && !m_multisig`.

## UkoeHB | 2023-06-12T21:38:28+00:00
I recommend changing the error message to 'transfer detail lookups are not allowed for multisig partial key images', although even that still begs the question 'why not?'.

## UkoeHB | 2023-06-12T21:39:15+00:00
It shouldn't be necessary to understand dispersed logic to know why this error was added.

## jeffro256 | 2023-06-12T21:46:04+00:00
I can't speak for the original author, but I think it's a UX thing. Since the key images provided to this function are largely provided directly from users, there's basically no scenario (that I can think of) which would warrant looking up partial key images. What's much more likely is someone sees a partial key image used somewhere (perhaps in the construction data), and thinks its a full key image and tries to use it as one and then gets unexpected behavior from the wallet.

## jeffro256 | 2023-06-12T21:46:12+00:00
That error message is better though 

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2023-06-12T06:33:42+00:00
- Merged at: 2023-07-07T02:38:12+00:00
