---
title: Fixed get_block_template_backlog performance
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8381
author: SChernykh
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-06-08T20:59:19+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-08-23T03:43:22+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2022-08-23T03:43:22+00:00'
merged_at: '2022-08-23T03:43:22+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Before the fix, it processed all transactions in the mempool which could be very slow when mempool grows to several MBs in size. I observed `get_block_template_backlog` taking up to 15 seconds of CPU time under high mempool load.

After the fix, only transactions that can potentially be mined in the next block will be processed (a bit more than the current block median weight).

# Discussion History
## UkoeHB | 2022-06-09T13:01:25+00:00
The max block weight is 2x the median weight, which can occur if fee pressure is high enough. I'd recommend [EDIT: 2.1x] the median weight.

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-09T13:14:20+00:00
Or you could use the block penalty algo to choose txs.

## SChernykh | 2022-06-09T13:38:54+00:00
I know about the 2x limit, and 1.125x was a conscious choice. 1.125x here doesn't mean it will be the hard limit for miners using this interface, it's just the starting point (new block notification). There's also a new transaction notification that miners get separately for each transaction. Based on my experience with p2pool, mined blocks never get above even 1.01 of the median weight. 

## SChernykh | 2022-06-09T13:43:55+00:00
So if the Monero network is under a high load, miners will start with 1.125x worth of transactions and will grow it with each new transaction until the next block. More sophisticated miners can keep track of all individual transaction notifications and manually remove those that were mined in each incoming block - then they can keep their own mempool of any size. Like I said, it's just a starting point.

P.S. By "miners" I mean p2pool here because it's the only software that uses this interface now.

## SChernykh | 2022-06-09T14:02:56+00:00
I need to think about it more. The problem is that `is_transaction_ready_to_go` is a very slow function (it checks all RCT signatures), which is why this PR was created in the first place. So setting as low limit as reasonably possible is the goal here.
Edit: it's more important that miners start mining on the new block with maybe fewer transactions, instead of waiting for another 0.5 seconds to get up to 2x of the median weight. But again it all depends on the fee that discarded transactions can bring.

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-09T14:54:29+00:00
Maybe this is a deeper architecture problem... txs in the mempool should ALWAYS be ready to go. If there are any conditions where a tx isn't ready to go, that implies a problem with how the mempool is being managed internally.

## SChernykh | 2022-06-09T15:11:29+00:00
Transactions can get invalid after a reorg, or even after a new block is received in case this block has conflicting transactions 

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-09T15:15:23+00:00
At minimum, a tx in the mempool should have valid proofs. The semantics could be invalid due to a hardfork (for example, changing the max output count), the ring member references could be invalid due to reorgs, and key images could be invalid due to new blocks. Sadly, `check_tx_inputs()` is a do-everything function and you have to call it to check _anything_.

Ideally, you could just cache the onetime addresses and amount commitments of ring member references, then:
1. check the tx semantics are valid under the current protocol rules
2. check the cached ring members match outputs in the current ledger at the specified on-ledger output indices
3. check the tx's key images aren't duplicated in the current ledger

## UkoeHB | 2022-06-09T15:28:07+00:00
The 'ideal' is out of scope for this PR though. Maybe an API endpoint for 'request more txs not in this tx set and with fee/weight <= x' would help you (the fee qualifier lets you dodge some txs previously labeled as not ready, though it's not perfect).
1. use the notifier to get an initial batch of txs
2. start mining
3. request small additional batches on a separate thread until you can't increase the size of your tx blob any more without incurring a penalty

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-06-09T17:16:30+00:00
There's already a list of txes sorted by fee/byte, avoids enumerating all txes from the db above.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-06-09T17:18:24+00:00
Technically, if all txes in the txpool pay over the odds, you can go to 2x. Not sure you care here.

## SChernykh | 2022-06-09T17:38:02+00:00
Are you talking about `m_txs_by_fee_and_receive_time`? Yes, it will be better to use it but I'm not sure it's up to date at the time this code is executed (right after a new block has been added to the blockchain, in the end of `handle_block_to_main_chain`). Can you clarify?

## SChernykh | 2022-06-09T17:49:43+00:00
On the other hand, even though it will be running faster, using `m_txs_by_fee_and_receive_time` will require copy-pasting a lot of code from `fill_block_template` and I prefer to have cleaner code here. 90% of the run time will be spent inside `is_transaction_ready_to_go` anyway.

## SChernykh | 2022-06-09T17:58:41+00:00
I've added a commit which should make `for_all_txpool_txes` call much faster, so it shouldn't be an issue.

## SChernykh | 2022-06-09T18:08:50+00:00
I care more about sending data to miner faster, so 1.125x is a compromise value. As I wrote above, miner will get new transaction notifications anyway and will grow its transaction pool above 1.125x.

## mj-xmr | 2022-06-10T11:36:17+00:00
Is median_weight always divisible by 8?

If not, then please do:

`const uint64_t max_backlog_weight = median_weight + static_cast<uint64_t>(std::roundl(median_weight / static_cast<long double>(8));`

## mj-xmr | 2022-06-10T11:38:14+00:00
Is `const cryptonote::blobdata & txblob` possible?

[EDIT] I meant **CONST** reference of course. Cat ate it.

## mj-xmr | 2022-06-10T11:42:47+00:00
Perhaps risky but it might be worth it to flip these 2 lines and emplace back the `e`, if this is a bottleneck.

In case `e` has to stay a const ref, then I'd create another const ref to it, that would point to an iterated non-const ref `eRW` and `emplate_back(eRW)`.
```c++
for ( tx_block_template_backlog_entry& eRW : tmp) 
{ 
const tx_block_template_backlog_entry& e = eRW;
try
```

And then emplace back the `eRW`

## SChernykh | 2022-06-10T11:49:38+00:00
This rewrite will just change rounding mode from truncation (integer division) to nearest (FP division and roundl). Why would it matter here? `max_backlog_weight` being 345678 or 345679 doesn't change anything.

## mj-xmr | 2022-06-10T13:27:20+00:00
If it doesn't matter, then it's OK.

## SChernykh | 2022-06-10T18:57:58+00:00
This is not a bottleneck. `tx_block_template_backlog_entry` is a 48-byte plain struct, so compiler will optimize away all unnecessary copying.

# Action History
- Created by: SChernykh | 2022-06-08T20:59:19+00:00
- Merged at: 2022-08-23T03:43:22+00:00
