---
title: 'wallet: faster value conveyance via five various velocity advances'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8046
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-11-05T19:35:58+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-11-05T16:54:31+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2022-05-16T18:50:10+00:00'
merged_at: '2022-05-16T18:50:10+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## SChernykh | 2022-04-05T19:59:26+00:00
This change is unnecessary, `key_image` can be left here.

## SChernykh | 2022-04-05T20:00:12+00:00
`outs = std::move(all_outs.front());` should be faster

## SChernykh | 2022-04-05T20:00:55+00:00
Double semicolon `;;`

## j-berman | 2022-04-13T02:23:29+00:00
The only circumstance I can think of where this `valid_public_keys_cache` is an improvement is if there are duplicate fake outs selected in a single tx, and [imo duplicates should be prevented in the first place](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8047#issuecomment-994496906).

Are there other circumstances I'm missing where the wallet would attempt to re-add the same fake out such that `valid_public_keys_cache` would be an improvement? I can't repro it when trying a normal transfer

Alternative suggestion that would take a fair amount of effort and require a migration: if you were to also store the output public key and mask in ringdb, then you can assume [the values coming from ringdb are valid](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/f49fc9b4876382d5c6f08fd7a6125b554c49e260/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L8461) and just do a simple equality check of the values stored in ringdb against the values returned by the daemon, rather than the more expensive `rct::isInMainSubgroup` checks (since to get into ringdb in the first place, the `rct::isInMainSubgroup` checks must have already been performed)... Probably not worth the effort since ringdb-based tx's should be rare in practice anyway

## SChernykh | 2022-04-13T05:19:31+00:00
> All commits LGTM except https://github.com/monero-project/monero/commit/bd740838ac64e8739c5a81e2c2e0a0773f2fe3a7

It does say `5.9 second -> 5.2 seconds`, so there is an improvement.

## j-berman | 2022-04-13T05:50:10+00:00
I meant if that commit's improvement is because the sample test case is selecting duplicate fake outs in a single tx, then I would think the commit probably shouldn't be included because I think duplicate outs should actually be prevented instead..

Unless there is some other way that this would yield an improvement I'm not seeing

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-04-30T10:23:42+00:00
IIRC this is because this function ends up called several times when selecting rings. I'll try it to make sure.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-04-30T10:53:03+00:00
Doesn't seem to. Possibly I made several txes in a row to average, I don't remember. In that case, the timing would be unrepresentative, unless one cancels a tx, or most of the outputs the wallet requests are unusable, in which case the wallets asks for more (I think this includes the previous set). Probably down to averaging.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-04-30T10:55:10+00:00
Actually, I quite possibly tested on a short chain on which I mined a few hundred blocks first, so that'd mean fake out sets with overlapping outputs as you suggested. Doesn't seem enough to cause 5.9 -> 5.2 though, but who knows.

## j-berman | 2022-04-30T21:11:46+00:00
I didn't consider reusing across attempts could come into play here, fair enough. Your call on it. Approving as is

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2021-11-05T19:35:58+00:00
- Merged at: 2022-05-16T18:50:10+00:00
