---
title: 'serde: replace JSON and epee binary serialization'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8557
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-09-08T07:00:48+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-11-22T17:04:10+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2022-11-22T17:04:10+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
The Monero repository currently uses a DOM model for p2p serialization (portable_storage in epee). This is sub-optimal for two reasons: inefficiency and underspecification. During normal operation of a node, even with no bad actors, a Monero node wastes valuable processor time and memory to build an in-memory model of serialized/deserialized data before copying that data into/out of C++ types. This is the "inefficient" component. However, in the worst case, as seen during the 2020 Christmas attack, this method of deserialization can have disatrous consequences for the network. Since, under a DOM model, an incoming packet can not be determined to contain nonsensical data until it is fully deserialized (as long the packet is not malformed according to the data format), this leaves a lot of degrees of freedom for crafters of DoS packets to exploit.

The aim of this PR is to create an easy to use, mostly backwards compatible interface for fully specifying the process of serialization (mostly deserialization)  for each C++ type without a DOM to mitigate the above issues. Currently, this PR only replaces JSON and epee serialization, but the interface/model should be flexible enough to integrate Boost portable archives in the future (maybe others), but I'll leave that to a later PR since this is already getting massive. This PR needs a lot of refinement, documentation, unit tests, and performance tests but the general concepts and code layout are finished.

The name of this PR and the design decisions I made are ripped off from the [Rust Serde Framework](https://serde.rs/). I wanted to mirror  an existing framework so I didn't have to make up and explain terminology ;). There are quite a few differences because the languages are so different. For example, the `Serialize` and `Deserialize` traits in Rust have been replaced by ADL functions `serialize_default` and `deserialize_default`, respectively. There is also `serialize_as_blob` and `deserialize_as_blob` which serve a similar purpose but transform types to/from a stream of calls differently. Also, `Deserializer`s doesn't specialize each method based on a `Visitor` passed, but rather are type-agnostic and let `Visitors` store the values, or references to values, themselves. They need to be collected later by `(de/ser)rialize_(default/as_blob)`.

Unfortunately, I lied a little before. Not all JSON deserialization is DOM-free in this PR. The older discrete JSON REST APIs are DOM-free. However the `/json_rpc` endpoints are not. This is because the JSON data itself determines which C++ type will be the target of the deserialization by way of the `"method"` parameter. If the `"params"` field is encountered before `"method"`, then the JSON deserializer can not know the specification to deserialize to any particular type until after the `"params"` field is already parsed. Instead of writing a custom DOM object, I created `ValueDeserializer` in `contrib/serde/include/serde/json/value.h` which allowed deserializing to/from the underlying DOM type: `rapidjson::Value`.

Potential alternatives to this PR:
* #7999 
* https://github.com/vtnerd/monero/tree/replace_p2p_serialization

# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2022-09-08T07:00:48+00:00
- Closed at: 2022-11-22T17:04:10+00:00
