---
title: RingCT cache (huge block propagation speedup)
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8675
author: SChernykh
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-12-11T19:25:07+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-01-14T09:40:07+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2023-01-11T17:27:52+00:00'
merged_at: '2023-01-11T17:27:52+00:00'
---

# Original Description
The problem: block propagation takes up to 1.5 seconds even on a fast 6-core Ryzen with 64 GB RAM and an NVMe SSD because monerod must check all transactions before adding them to the new block. This affects mining pools (including P2Pool) and solo miners the most by increasing block orphan rate.

I discovered it when trying to optimize my P2Pool nodes. What I found is each transaction can be checked by monerod up to 3 times:

- when it's added to the mempool
- when it's added to the new block
- when it's sent via ZMQ to connected P2Pool nodes

Each check does exactly the same calculations, so it can be cached. The main offender here is `verRctNonSemanticsSimple` which doesn't have side effects, so if it gets the same input more than one time, it will return the same result each time. This PR adds a cache of last 8192 `rctSig` values that passed the check. It doesn't store the values themselves, but their keccak (`cryptonote::get_blob_hash`) hashes to save memory. Using keccak should be safe from collision attacks since it's a cryptographically secure hash.

I've been running this code on my nodes for a few days and here is a comparison between 2 nodes with the same hardware (6 core CPU, 64 GB RAM, NVMe SSD):
|Block|tx count|propagation delay|optimized delay|speedup
|-|-|-|-|-
|2772901|117|0.6696 s|0.1059 s|6.3x
|2772903|45|0.2905 s|0.059 s|4.9x
|2772907|75|0.5127 s|0.0926 s|5.5x
|2773001|3|0.0766 s|0.0406 s|1.9x
|2773021|112|1.2886 s|0.1713 s|7.5x
|2773043|159|0.8643 s|0.1359 s|6.3x

Raw data: https://paste.debian.net/hidden/cefbf13b/

@UkoeHB and @kayabaNerve - one of you guys should review this.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2022-12-11T21:14:50+00:00
I think this check for which signatures should be cached needs to be more future-proof. If/when we upgrade to Bulletproofs++ or something else, this cache will silently be skipped for future blocks and we will likely forget to update this check. 

## jeffro256 | 2022-12-11T21:20:47+00:00
Instead of making it a positive check (i.e. must have type X or Y), maybe make it a negative check (i.e. type != one of the old sig types)

## SChernykh | 2022-12-11T23:01:36+00:00
I think it's better to forget to activate this check than to have the cache running silently with new RCT types and people forgetting that it exists. I can add an assert if `rv.type` is some new unknown type.

## SChernykh | 2022-12-11T23:04:10+00:00
Also, this assert will only be needed for this PR in master branch, not for the release branch because it won't add any new types.

## jeffro256 | 2022-12-11T23:30:19+00:00
> I think it's better to forget to activate this check than to have the cache running silently with new RCT types and people forgetting that it exists. I can add an assert if `rv.type` is some new unknown type.

Why's that? Are you worried about the security of the cache in future updates? 

Also, the assertion statement in the latest commit you pushed might have made the situation worse... now core consensus code will error out if we forget to update this part of the code. 

## SChernykh | 2022-12-11T23:38:48+00:00
I don't know how future updates will work and no one knows right now. Maybe they will change how data is serialized and this code will become incorrect. No, this assert makes sure this code won't be forgotten because it will block all transactions with new RingCT types, so it will be taken care of during development.

## jeffro256 | 2022-12-12T03:13:15+00:00
I'd be down to add this assert statement is as long as it gets added into the update checklist.

## hyc | 2022-12-12T06:08:52+00:00
Either it will trigger during development, and it can be fixed then, or it won't, because there's no problem. That's kind of the point of adding an assert.

## SChernykh | 2022-12-12T06:15:22+00:00
What update checklist? It's impossible that the release process would get that far without this code being looked at. You still don't get how this assert will work.

## jeffro256 | 2022-12-12T07:26:27+00:00
> Either it will trigger during development, and it can be fixed then, or it won't, because there's no problem. That's kind of the point of adding an assert.

Yeah it will get triggered eventually during development, but I would prefer if it were to be thought about sooner rather than later if a new signature type were to be added. It would be nice to have something additional besides just a runtime assertion. Even if it's only just a comment in `rctTypes.h` where `RCTType*` are defined, so the number of places in the code code where updates are needed doesn't grow undocumented. 

## SChernykh | 2022-12-12T07:37:42+00:00
There are dozens places in the code where RCTType* is checked and used, and zero comments about it in `rctTypes.h`. The assert I added is a standard practice used in Monero code already, example: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/cryptonote_basic/cryptonote_format_utils.cpp#L464
Whoever will be working on adding a new RCT type, *will* search the code for all occurences of RCTType* and fix all places where it's found - even before this assert triggers. This assert is just an extra safety check that will make it impossible to send/receive transactions until it's fixed, so it's literally impossible it would pass any tests without a fix. Why do I have to explain this, you should know this all. This issue is resolved already.

## jeffro256 | 2022-12-12T07:44:09+00:00
> There are dozens places in the code where RCTType* is checked and used, and zero comments about it in `rctTypes.h`

I think this more of an example of "it is what it is" instead of "what it should be", but just to be clear, I'm still in favor of the PR besides this, and am willing to concede this point if no one else cares. 

## SChernykh | 2022-12-12T07:59:35+00:00
I've added an extensive comment in the code with instructions of what to do if this assert triggers. There's nothing more we can do at this point.

## hyc | 2022-12-12T08:01:49+00:00
This is "what it should be" when nobody can tell you what future types will exist.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_aren%27t_gonna_need_it

## kayabaNerve | 2022-12-12T11:50:25+00:00
Can't someone have a block with duplicated rctSigs? Or is this premised on the key images being hashed in the rctSigs block and the key image checks preventing that? I *believe* that successfully carries to the mempool since Monero only carries the first observed, yet I'd infinitely rather this cache be based on the TX hash (assuming that includes the RCT sigs. Else, we'd need a tuple of TX hash, RCT sigs hash).

## kayabaNerve | 2022-12-12T11:55:30+00:00
I'd prefer we explicitly reset this as it is feasible to overflow. If every block had 2000 TXs, we'd already have that happen. While we haven't had that happen, this would be cheap to make a uint64_t instead.

My comment is only of an issue if this will panic on overflow, yet this is C++... so feel free to say we don't have bounds checks on uint32_t and it's fine.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-12-12T11:57:18+00:00
debug assert the set length doesn't exceed 8192? It shouldn't, this seems correct, yet I would hate to hear to this is a memleak in the future.

## SChernykh | 2022-12-12T12:16:45+00:00
uint32_t doesn't overflow, it wraps to 0 and this is explicitly defined in C++ standard.

## SChernykh | 2022-12-12T12:20:19+00:00
Regardless of all that, `verRctNonSemanticsSimple` will return the same result for the same rctSigs. The cache doesn't change this behavior in such cases. Also, as you said, key image checks prevent that.

## SChernykh | 2022-12-12T12:22:17+00:00
It is correct. I've tested it with much smaller buffer size 64 and it kept going with `hashes` set maxed out at 64 (65 for a brief moment when it adds a new hash and then deletes the old one). I don't see the need of an assert for just a few self-contained lines of code logic.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-12-12T12:28:54+00:00
Except that only works if this is after the images are written into the sigs (which it is) AND the sigs serialize them.

```c++
    // CLSAG signature
    struct clsag {
        keyV s; // scalars
        key c1;

        key I; // signing key image
        key D; // commitment key image

        BEGIN_SERIALIZE_OBJECT()
            FIELD(s)
            FIELD(c1)
            // FIELD(I) - not serialized, it can be reconstructed
            FIELD(D)
        END_SERIALIZE()
    };
```

CLSAG doesn't serialize its image.

I'm pretty sure a block can have TX0 with whatever, and then just reuse those RCT Sigs in TX1, unless there's a second serialization function in use which I'm missing.

## SChernykh | 2022-12-12T12:31:21+00:00
Also, it is running on my nodes now and I keep an eye on memory usage.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-12-12T12:32:53+00:00
It's not something I see as critical. Solely a suggestion I had ;) If it's good, it's good.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-12-12T12:33:29+00:00
:+1: 

While i know some compilers allow converting that to a panic (clang, at least), it's not something I care to force given Monero is C++. I'm just used to Rust :sweat_smile: 

## SChernykh | 2022-12-12T12:36:40+00:00
It looks like unit tests didn't catch this. MLSAG has the same "can be reconstructed" field and unit tests fail with cache if I enable it for MLSAG. I just checked the code and `RCTTypeBulletproofPlus` serializes everything, so I'll change my code to only cache `RCTTypeBulletproofPlus`. We don't have new CLSAG transactions anymore, right?

## SChernykh | 2022-12-12T12:41:33+00:00
And also `message` and `mixRing` fields need to be serialized separately: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/ringct/rctTypes.h#L330
I'll fix the code.

## SChernykh | 2022-12-12T12:55:00+00:00
I made it `uint64_t` for the peace of mind.

## SChernykh | 2022-12-12T12:55:49+00:00
Pushed an update with more comments, `message` and `mixRing` serialized, and only `RCTTypeBulletproofPlus` cached.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-12-12T13:39:17+00:00
We do have new CLSAG transactions, yet we shouldn't have new RCTType::CLSAG transactions.

If we serialize the message under RCT, yes, that should include the key images and it should also include the mixRing (albeit with a relative state instead of an absolute state, which can change if the blocks re-org). If you edited it to also serialize the absolute mixRing, this likely has achieved comprehensiveness? It should be as comprehensive as my suggestion to cache by the TX hash (which I now see was flawed thanks to its relativity). I'll have to review the tests and double check later.

Thanks for responding to this :)

## SChernykh | 2022-12-12T13:44:22+00:00
> absolute mixRing

What is it? What I added is `mixRing` field which is a vector of vector of pairs of 32-byte keys.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-12-12T13:49:57+00:00
Yep. I was using the adjective absolute on it since it's no longer relative (as key offsets is). No further commentary there :)

## UkoeHB | 2022-12-12T14:46:49+00:00
You'd have to be nuts to compile monero for production with panic-on-overflow.

## kayabaNerve | 2022-12-12T17:30:37+00:00
Thanks @SChernykh. That also helps solves some unintended behavior where if it overflowed, the modulus would skip if 2^32 isn't perfectly divisible by the cache size (not that that would be a security issue, just an unintended cache inefficiency).

## vtnerd | 2022-12-20T17:29:23+00:00
Small nitpick, this should be `std::size_t` since the template argument is `std::size_t`.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-20T17:30:05+00:00
There's also `data.count(value) != 0`, but I doubt the compiler generated ASM differs.

## vtnerd | 2022-12-20T18:39:57+00:00
There's two serialization functions, [the other](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/ringct/rctTypes.h#L388) is used by `do_serialize`. So both of these fields should be included in that serialization afaik. Normally the other one is called though (again, afaik).

## SChernykh | 2022-12-20T19:49:46+00:00
I think you're right, I need to double check this. `serialize_rctsig_base` is only called for serializing transactions, not through `do_serialize`. Then these 2 lines are not necessary.

## SChernykh | 2022-12-20T21:18:00+00:00
It serializes whatever is listed inside `BEGIN_SERIALIZE/BEGIN_SERIALIZE_OBJECT`, so these 2 lines are not needed.

## SChernykh | 2022-12-20T21:41:31+00:00
`count` and `find` call the same search code internally, the only difference is the result type, so maybe 1-2 ASM instructions in the end will differ. I generally prefer `find` because `count` can be slower for `multimap/multiset` containers (it has to actually count repeating elements). It's not the case here though.

## jeffro256 | 2022-12-22T20:20:48+00:00
Agreed, `do_serialize()` should serialize all fields of `rctSig`, so that representation should be a unique representation for every `rctSig`. It might be a little overkill, since not all that info is used for concensus, but it won't falsely equate two non-equal `rctSig`s, so I'm cool with it. 

# Action History
- Created by: SChernykh | 2022-12-11T19:25:07+00:00
- Merged at: 2023-01-11T17:27:52+00:00
