---
title: renamed and added comments to get_destination_view_key_pub(..)
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8382
author: paulshapiro
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-06-09T19:54:20+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-06-13T08:18:18+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This function was somewhat ambiguously named and its function is a bit difficult to interpret at first glance. It's only used in two locations for the purpose of selecting to which of the destinations a payment ID should be encrypted so I thought I'd submit an improvement to its naming and provide some comments about its implementation.
It would probably be better yet to split this function into two - one which selects the pid encr dest, and another to extract the view key from it - though there is a conflation in the functionality here related to the return and interpretation of a null key.

# Discussion History
## mj-xmr | 2022-06-10T11:28:50+00:00
This line might enjoy being broken into two.

## jeffro256 | 2022-06-11T01:08:59+00:00
Could we please get a comment here describing the overall purpose of the function since we're renaming?

## paulshapiro | 2022-06-11T03:31:57+00:00
That's basically the point of proper function naming, where possible, i.e. in this case I think we can get away without commenting the function, but I would be open to adding one?

## mj-xmr | 2022-06-11T04:58:22+00:00
The function is named much better, and Robert C. Martin promotes such kind of naming in his books (*), but a bit of more human readable text wouldn't hurt I think.

(*) A digression: he'd also definitely say, that such a function has to be broken into many smaller functions, that *do one thing* each

## paulshapiro | 2022-06-11T06:47:55+00:00
Since we're talking about it, I'd be happy to take a crack at splitting this function into its two (IMO) factors. Actually should be fairly easy. But it will create a higher overhead in review on a highly critical codepath. But.. also, hopefully is fairly trivial and hopefully has enough qualified eyes on reviewing it.

## mj-xmr | 2022-06-11T08:27:02+00:00
Exactly for that reason, I think a separate PR would increase the chance of success :)

## paulshapiro | 2022-06-13T08:18:17+00:00
Ok, cool. I will leave it for later then.

# Action History
- Created by: paulshapiro | 2022-06-09T19:54:20+00:00
