---
title: Allow option 'non-interactive' in monerod config file
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8772
author: almalh
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2023-03-10T00:13:38+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-06-27T16:31:40+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2023-06-27T16:31:40+00:00'
merged_at: '2023-06-27T16:31:40+00:00'
---

# Original Description
#### Legitimacy
~~Considering that non-interactive and all system flags are allowed in config file of wallet-rpc, I believe the user request is founded.~~
EDIT: jtgrassie has justly pointed out that non-interactive is a dummy option for wallet-rpc, so this becomes a question of whether the user is indulged or not.

#### Accuracy
Only non-interactive is allowed, the system flags are still not allowed in config for monerod.

#### Minimality
The anonymous namespace in Deamonizer.h makes things complicated as well as the fact that wallet_rpc uses the class too. I reworked daemonizer::init_options to accomodate both the new option for monerod and the status quo in wallet_rpc, without breaking encapsulation. Trivial changes either break wallet_rpc or allow all options for monerod. The latter is a one liner, but for the sake of accuracy it cannot be this trivial.

Therefore I submit to you that this is a correct patch as defined in the contributing guidelines regarding minimality and accuracy, I also welcome constructive criticism.

Closes #8753

# Discussion History
## almalh | 2023-03-11T04:18:11+00:00
1. Needs to be removed from init_options, otherwise the option is added twice which cause the error _Failed to parse arguments: option '--non-interactive' is ambiguous and matches different versions of '--non-interactive'_

## almalh | 2023-03-11T04:18:25+00:00
2. So it needs to be added in wallet_rpc as well because init_options does not add it anymore. Even though run_interactive and run_non_interactive do the same thing daemonizer still needs to be able to read non_interactive from desc_params or it will crash, hopefully it makes sense.

## jtgrassie | 2023-03-11T04:20:36+00:00
> daemonizer still needs to be able to read the param from the vm or it will crash

You sure about this? I can't see where the dependency is. In any case, adding in the hidden_options like you had a moment ago seems reasonable.

## almalh | 2023-03-11T04:29:42+00:00
Let me recheck, wallet_rpc did break but maybe it was something else

## jtgrassie | 2023-03-11T04:41:40+00:00
Thanks, you _should_ be able to drop this line. That said, I suppose it does no harm leaving like this either. 

## almalh | 2023-03-12T00:19:39+00:00
I confirm that _has_arg(vm, arg_non_interactive)_ throws an exception if arg_non_interactive hasn't been added prior, probably because there's no check for an empty value in the implementation. It's not hard to reproduce with the function on its own; you can see how it failed the tests too [here](https://github.com/almalh/monero/commit/f306af7ca4c3629e8de504cd374c4e46aab41c2a). I pushed a commit to change back to hidden_options as suggested.

# Action History
- Created by: almalh | 2023-03-10T00:13:38+00:00
- Merged at: 2023-06-27T16:31:40+00:00
