---
title: 'wallet2: fix rescanning tx via scan_tx [release]'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8566
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-09-14T02:46:07+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-06-27T16:21:02+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2023-06-27T16:21:02+00:00'
merged_at: '2023-06-27T16:21:02+00:00'
---

# Original Description
## Issues the PR solves with `scan_tx`

- Calling `scan_tx` on already processed received txs causes duplicates. (#8531)
- Scanning txs out of order can corrupt the wallet and render it unable to recover from a reorg correctly.
- Coinbase txs don't get scanned as miner txs via `scan_tx`.
- If a user provides a tx with height > the wallet's known scan height, `get_transfers` will return inaccurate num confirmation data for that tx until the wallet refreshes.
- If a wallet has already processed an **incoming** tx in the pool, the tx is then mined, and then the user calls `scan_tx` with that tx before the wallet refreshes, the tx will be in a state of both "unconfirmed" and "confirmed" until the wallet refreshes.

## UX changes the PR brings

- `scan_tx` now requires a trusted daemon edit: if the user attempts to scan a tx that is not their most recent tx. I chose to add this requirement because if a user passes a txid into `scan_tx` that has a height lower than any txs the wallet already processed, then the wallet will re-request *all* of the wallet's already processed txs from the daemon. This reveals more of a user's txs to the daemon than the user might otherwise expect. Given the way the code is structured, it would seem the simplest solution to this is to require the feature be used with a trusted daemon.
- If a user provides a tx with height > the wallet's known scan height, the wallet will continue scanning from that height. If a user misses scanning a tx because of this, they either have to scan the missed tx manually with `scan_tx`, or use `rescan_blockchain`.

## Future considerations

- Assume tx2 spends an output received in tx1. tx2 is a sweep to some other wallet's address. The user calls `scan_tx(tx2)` first before `scan_tx(tx1)`. As is, the wallet is unable to figure out that tx2 spends from tx1 in this case (the user has to re-scan tx2 after tx1). In order to solve this, the wallet would need to query the daemon to see if tx1's associated key image(s) have been spent and in what tx(s).
- In `get_transfers`, if a daemon is connected, query the daemon to retrieve the latest height and block reward rather than use the wallet's latest state.
- When the user provides a tx to `scan_tx` with height > the wallet's known scan height, don't call `refresh` inside `scan_tx`. In this case, `scan_tx` waits until the wallet is sync'd or the user stops the wallet before responding. Use `fast_refresh` instead, or just don't do this at all once `get_transfers` uses the daemon's latest height and block reward.

# Discussion History
## afungible | 2022-09-20T21:23:00+00:00
bool rescanning_tx = (txid == m_transfers[kit->second].m_txid);

( ) helps readability.

## afungible | 2022-09-20T21:25:54+00:00
tx_amounts_this_out - the instance name is strange. Good to be clear as its not self-descriptive.

## afungible | 2022-09-20T21:27:53+00:00
Comparing with NULL is a better practice, as we're comparing an instance.
and adding a braces even on a single IF is no harm, avoids confusion.

## afungible | 2022-09-20T21:47:01+00:00
Under the same "else if" block, you do..
else if (m_transfers[kit->second].m_spent || m_transfers[kit->second].amount() >= tx_scan_info[o].amount)
{
..
if (!rescanning_tx) // 2221
{
}
else
{
}
..
if (rescanning_tx) // 2243
{
}

rescanning_tx is being assigned only once. I see line 2243-2257 is independent & code could be optimized by moving it to line 2221, like:

if (rescanning_tx)
{
..
}
else // place code for if (!rescanning_tx) case
{
 LOG_ERROR("Public key " << epee::string_tools::pod_to_hex(kit->first) // line 2223
..
}
.. // line 2234-2242 (common)

basically, the code could be better optimized imo.


## moneromooo-monero | 2022-10-05T08:54:03+00:00
Seems a bit unfortunate to add half a dozen lines of pointless rename.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-10-05T08:55:21+00:00
You seem to be allowing txes not on the chain. Why ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-10-05T08:56:58+00:00
Looks like there is no need for the copying.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-10-05T09:10:17+00:00
Seriously ? :D

## j-berman | 2022-10-05T17:13:32+00:00
From DM's:

```
moneromooo: Why do you allow pool txes ?
jberman: Why not? It allows em today too
moneromooo: Because it seems like complication for nohting to me.
moneromooo: But if it works, fine.
moneromooo: I mean, they'd be scanned right after or before already. And there could be a race here if you're not careful.
jberman: Seems reasonable. I don't mind just not processing pool txids and limiting the complexity. It seems the primary use case for the feature was/is restore wallet from higher height -> scan_tx all old txs
moneromooo: Well, if it works now, I'm fine with it. It just seemed odd so I mentioned it.
```

I don't have a strong opinion on this. I figure trying to maintain the API's behavior is reasonable here and I don't see what exactly is wrong with it as is. Going to keep it unless there's more push back

## j-berman | 2022-10-05T17:19:22+00:00
Was trying to de-dup in here since I noticed the RPC server doesn't de-dup, updated to just use an `unordered_set` for txids passed to `scan_tx` instead

## jeffro256 | 2022-10-19T20:20:28+00:00
`merged_txs.reserve(l.size() + r.size());`

## jeffro256 | 2022-10-19T20:23:41+00:00
Would you mind putting this as a method in `NodeRPCProxy` instead of here please? See #8605 if you want an example of what I mean. I'm trying to centralize all the raw RPC invocation code into one place. 

## moneromooo-monero | 2023-02-25T07:40:45+00:00
leftover debug trace

## moneromooo-monero | 2023-02-25T07:40:56+00:00
leftover debug trace

## moneromooo-monero | 2023-02-25T17:26:11+00:00
This will only sort partially, if two of the txes are in the same block (or are both in the txpool). Do you care ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2023-02-25T17:32:48+00:00
This has >= for a function named "above", intended ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2023-02-25T17:35:33+00:00
"guarantees"

## iamamyth | 2023-02-26T22:12:03+00:00
I think this comment mostly, but not entirely, conveys the rationale for skipping forward in the blockchain. I suggest:
```
If the highest scan_tx height exceeds the wallet's known scan height, then the wallet should skip ahead to the scan_tx's height in order to service the request in a timely manner. Skipping unrequested transactions avoids generating sequences of calls to process_new_transaction which process transactions out-of-order, relative to their order in the blockchain, as the process_new_transaction implementation requires transactions to be processed in blockchain order. 
```

## j-berman | 2023-02-28T02:21:41+00:00
Clarified this print statement in the latest. I put a print statement here on purpose because the first attempt is testing that `scan_tx` works on first attempt, then the second attempt is testing that re-scanning works, so the print statement helps clarify it's testing different things

## j-berman | 2023-02-28T02:21:46+00:00
Same as above

## j-berman | 2023-02-28T02:24:47+00:00
I don't see any code that relies on processing txs in the order they appear in a block (or in the pool), just by "height order." So this should suffice

## j-berman | 2023-02-28T02:26:20+00:00
Renamed to `has_unexpected_tx_at_height_or_above`

## j-berman | 2023-02-28T02:26:44+00:00
Updated as per [this suggestion](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8566#discussion_r1118161316)

## j-berman | 2023-02-28T02:26:48+00:00
Done

## moneromooo-monero | 2023-02-28T08:24:57+00:00
It could screw up cold signing if the m_transfers vector is ordered differently between hot and cold wallets (inputs are refered to by index IIRC). Possibly same for multisig.
All theoretical though. But having m_transfers shuffle itself a bit seems like the kind of bad idea that comes back to bite us later. I suppose it's nothing that can't be fixed later if it does come back though so not a show stopper I suppose.


## j-berman | 2023-02-28T22:38:41+00:00
You're right, I missed that. Re-ordering txs like this can cause importing key images from cold wallet to hot wallet to fail (I haven't checked pool/multisig behavior).

This is unfortunate. I don't see a nice way to handle this here without the daemon returning additional data that enables the client to sort txs in the same block (or client re-fetches entire blocks). Checking `output_indices` seems it would only work for RCT txs, not pre-RCT. Do you see a nice way to handle this?

EDIT: probably what you were thinking: if a tx is re-scanned, I could be sure to keep its position in `m_transfers` static. Still thinking on this.

## j-berman | 2023-03-01T03:12:13+00:00
Multisig has the same issue, you were correct there too (`get_multisig_composite_key_image` relies on `m_transfers` to be in order).

For a 2/2 multisig, assume wallet A has scanned up to chain tip normally, and wallet B restores at a height > restore height and then uses `scan_tx([tx2, tx1])` to scan txs. If tx2 and tx1 are in the same block and wallet B calls `scan_tx` with the txs out of order, then wallet B will be borked.

Only way to prevent wallet B from getting borked here is for both wallets to order the txs in a consistent way, which goes back to my point above:

> I don't see a nice way to handle this here without the daemon returning additional data that enables the client to sort txs in the same block (or client re-fetches entire blocks)

Curious if you've got ideas here

## moneromooo-monero | 2023-03-01T08:01:11+00:00
I do not think you can. Keeping existing m_transfers order only works if you've not scanned those before (and different multisig participants might end up with different orders even if you keep previous order within a wallet).
However, getting more data from the daemon isn't a problem since you already get the txes, so getting the blocks they're in does not leak any more information, and it should not be too much extra data.


## j-berman | 2023-03-06T17:07:46+00:00
> so getting the blocks they're in does not leak any more information, and it should not be too much extra data.

Done in the latest

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2022-09-14T02:46:07+00:00
- Merged at: 2023-06-27T16:21:02+00:00
