---
title: Concurrent map
source_url: https://github.com/Cuprate/cuprate/pull/88
author: Boog900
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2024-03-05T22:53:53+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-09-25T15:21:36+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This adds a concurrent hash map impl.

This concurrent map is optimized for:
- multiple threads working on retrieving values concurrently.
- the keys needed being known before the workers start

It is not a full concurrent map. It is pretty much a concurrent map builder. 

Some background:

In the consensus code, we batch outputs need into one DB request so the DB can split the request up as it sees fit. This is probably the biggest reason why our RPC scanner is so quick, it will take this huge list of outputs needed and split them up between nodes getting the maximum from each node (5,000).

The way this currently works is when the shimmed db-rpc gets an output request it will deconstruct the hashmap into mutliplte hashmaps sending them to different nodes, await the response and combine the hashmap responses.

This isn't very efficient but it was good enough for the RPC scanner where the majority of the wait is on the actual RPC request.

This may be a problem for our DB though, which is what this Map impl tries to solve, no longer do we have to iterate, deconstruct and combine hashmaps.

Nothing here is final, but would be good to have thoughts @hinto-janai, @SyntheticBird45 

I did think of using 2 `DashMap`s one for request one for return but I feel this custom solution would be quicker as we don't have to care about 99% of the things DashMap can do.

# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: Boog900 | 2024-03-05T22:53:53+00:00
