---
title: 'wallet2: prevent duplicate outs'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8047
author: ghost
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2021-11-07T17:01:44+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-03-22T12:55:55+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2022-03-22T12:55:55+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Seeing a bug in Aeon transactions where multiple inputs  in one transaction use the same output. Sorry, I have not confirmed this bug exists in Monero yet, but I anticipate it does. Is this possibly the culprit? 

[aeon#253](https://github.com/aeonix/aeon/issues/253#issuecomment-962478273)

# Discussion History
## j-berman | 2021-12-15T08:25:48+00:00
This if statement seems unnecessary to me.

Assume you have 2 known rings to be used as inputs in a tx, and the first ring includes the real output from the second ring as a decoy. This if statement looks like it would prevent the real output from being added to the second ring, which would then cause the function to throw just outside the for loop because `own_found` won't get set to true. The user's likely recourse in that case is to then remove the ring entirely and have their client construct a new one, which is worse than allowing duplicates.

It seems it's ok to let the duplicates slide here and remove the if statement altogether. The assumption with known rings is that the rings have already been seen by the world, i.e. you're not gaining something tangible by removing the duplicates from rings that have already been seen by the world.

## j-berman | 2021-12-15T17:59:50+00:00
Adding to this, it seems the algorithm in general is still able to select duplicates because of this logic

> Assume you have 2 rings to be used as inputs in a tx, and the first ring includes the real output from the second ring as a decoy.

I'm not seeing what prevents this, this could use a deeper look.

## j-berman | 2021-12-15T18:36:59+00:00
Adding to [this comment](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8047/files#r769864024), I think you need to emplace the real outputs in `seen_outputs` before iterating to select decoys (much earlier on in `get_outs`, otherwise if you have 2 rings, ring 1 would be able to include a decoy that is a real output from ring 2)

## moneromooo-monero | 2021-12-24T10:18:56+00:00
This makes the loop a noop. I assume that is not intended.

# Action History
- Created by: ghost | 2021-11-07T17:01:44+00:00
- Closed at: 2022-03-22T12:55:55+00:00
