---
title: Update levin async callbacks for C++14
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8540
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-08-30T00:43:20+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-09-26T22:09:00+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
C++14 allows for `std::move`s into lambda captures, so this updates for that feature in the async framework for levin (p2p). This also updates the internal callback code within levin to reduce the copying as data is being received (timeout callback is moved/copied once, and thereafter only a `shared_ptr` is copied). With PR #7345 the callbacks become "safer" with `shared_ptr`/`weak_ptr` concepts.

Some testing with asan+tsan was also performed on the unit tests and `monerod`.

# Discussion History
## UkoeHB | 2022-09-08T19:04:19+00:00
`self_` will become a dangling reference when the lambda gets destroyed, can this cause a segfault?

## UkoeHB | 2022-09-08T19:08:20+00:00
If `cb` is an r-value reference, won't this move `cb` into the lambda, making the move down in `[this, pr, cb = std::move(cb), ping_context = std::move(ping_context), address = std::move(address)]` invalid?

Edit: nvm, looks like the following move is actually inside this lamba, hard to read the indentations on github.

## UkoeHB | 2022-09-09T22:30:37+00:00
For example, if `m_timer.async_wait()` moves the lambda into another function, then after that function call tries to access a data member of `self_.m_timer`, the data member won't exist because the lambda was destroyed in the function call (which destroys the `shared_ptr self`), so there will be a segfault.

You can't know just by looking at these lines if it is memory safe, which seems risky to me.

## vtnerd | 2022-09-11T00:09:17+00:00
No, but I think I need to add the `mutable` keyword here because `cb` should be implicit `const`, forcing a silent copy at the `std::move`. 

## UkoeHB | 2022-09-11T00:15:36+00:00
Oh yeah I forgot that lambda capture-by-value is `const` by default. Thanks for the reminder

## vtnerd | 2022-09-11T01:25:02+00:00
Crap, I can't believe I missed this. The safety of this is dependent on how `async_wait` is implemented internally (technically the only callee ensures safety here, but this is easy to miss in a refactor).

I did this elsewhere, and it definitely needs to be corrected in a couple of places (incoming PR!). Some of the existing cases uses an `asio::strand` though, and so you can "get away with it" if the `std::move` is done inside the strand (because the next op has to wait in the queue until the current instance returns).

## vtnerd | 2022-09-11T17:16:24+00:00
After further thought, I think this is valid, but I'm still likely to change it.

There are plenty of examples of a single async callback starting another instance of itself in a "loop". The documentation states that no synchronization is needed because it is an implicit single strand of calls. If this line here is an issue, then those types of setups would also be an issue.

I looked at some of the implementations for the async functions, and they all seem to never touch the internals after queuing an operation. It's probably for the "implicit" strand case; I could find no examples of this exact setup.

## jeffro256 | 2022-09-11T21:13:32+00:00
Thanks for the comments :)

## jeffro256 | 2022-09-11T21:23:10+00:00
What is the rationale for moving `anvoke_handler` logic into `invoke_response_handler_base` but not combining the two?

## jeffro256 | 2022-09-11T21:42:45+00:00
Same here: It would save an extra 8-byte copy to make buff a const reference instead of pass-by-value

## vtnerd | 2022-09-11T23:55:23+00:00
You mean, why not drop `anvoke_handler` completely in favor of `std::function` type erasure? The only reason is that this saves one allocation (most of the callbacks exceed the small size optimization of `std::` or `boost::` `function`).

If you meant something else, then you'll need to clarify what you meant here.

## jeffro256 | 2022-09-12T00:04:38+00:00
```suggestion
    for (const auto& pinv_resp_hndlr : local_invoke_response_handlers) {
      pinv_resp_hndlr->cancel();
    }
```

This is clearer IMO and removes the possibility of unnecessary overhead from `std::for_each` and the closure.

## vtnerd | 2022-09-12T00:09:54+00:00
Your right, since I'm touching this anyway, might as well update to it to C++11+ foreach loops.

## vtnerd | 2022-09-12T00:16:31+00:00
Hmm. Typically this is bad practice because the caller is required to provide a memory address for the span. On most (modern) ABIs this often results in less efficient code (because at most call-sites there is no existing span on the stack). In this instance, the function is invoked from one spot, and that chunk of code probably/maybe has a span on the stack already. 

I'm tempted to leave it because its dependent on the setup of the existing code. Could be persuaded differently, I guess.

## vtnerd | 2022-09-12T00:25:32+00:00
I was just reminded by this [blog post](https://quuxplusone.github.io/blog/2021/11/09/pass-string-view-by-value/) that by value is likely preferred here.

The callee doesn't have to generate indirect memory dereferences (the values are directly in the register), and it doesn't have to worry about the span being aliased (better optimizations in some cases).

I doubt either is going to matter much in this situation, but this suggestion is a series of tradeoffs to save one move instruction in the optimal case.

## jeffro256 | 2022-09-12T01:46:12+00:00
I mean that `invoke_response_handler_base` use to be a pure virtual base class, but now it contains a partial implementation. I'm not saying it's necessarily worse, but now there isn't that clean interface / implementation distinction. I was just wondering the reason for that decision. Since it's not used as a base class anywhere else, why not just combine `invoke_response_handler_base` and `anvoke_handler`?

## jeffro256 | 2022-09-12T01:48:08+00:00
Yeah fair enough. The only reason I mentioned it was because it was just passing it through to `do_handle`. But either way, the profiling isn't worth effort. Nevermind this comment. 

## vtnerd | 2022-09-12T15:53:02+00:00
I wanted to remove the `virtual` call for resetting the timer, thus the split of internal members. But otherwise, that wasn't strictly necessary.

However, some indirect call (`std::function`, function pointer, `virtual`, etc.) was still needed because of the templated callback. The `std::vector` has to store multiple different lambdas from `src/p2p/p2p.inl`. So that template argument isn't "fixed" to the levin handler, but rather generic per async invoke.

## jeffro256 | 2022-09-14T15:17:35+00:00
You could pass `self` as `std::weak_ptr` to be safe: https://floating.io/2017/07/lambda-shared_ptr-memory-leak/

## vtnerd | 2022-09-15T00:45:11+00:00
It might be worth changing (despite the small bump in CPU cycles), because its a better guarantee (compared to `release_protocol()` clearing) that no memory leak occurs. The callback is invoked so infrequently, that I will just go ahead and make that change too.

I don't see how `release_protocol()` can be removed though, otherwise I would've make this a `std::weak_ptr` already. The current behavior is to invoke `handle(...)` when destroying the connection, and doing this automatically in destructor cleanup is iffy because `m_connection_context` could already be destroyed.

## UkoeHB | 2022-09-26T17:23:13+00:00
I don't follow how `weak_ptr` is better here than the reference you had before. It doesn't impact the lifetime of the wrapped pointer.

## vtnerd | 2022-09-26T20:01:11+00:00
I'm not sure what you mean. The `weak_ptr` here adds little, which is why I didn't do it in the first attempt. It does guarantee cleanup of the callback before the `connection` destructor completes (instead of relying on `release_protocol()` to make that guarantee).

I could move the `weak_ptr` to the `deque` but that doesn't do much but add CPU cycles when invoking the callback.

Perhaps you were thinking of a change like #7345 where the callback has a `weak_ptr` to the `connection` object, instead of the reference. It might be possible to make that fix with less changes, but I didn't see how.

## vtnerd | 2022-09-26T20:53:56+00:00
Oh and @jeffro256 recommended switching to a `weak_ptr` here, to be extra cautious against `shared_ptr` cycles (and see first paragraph from prior response).

## vtnerd | 2022-09-26T21:06:00+00:00
Sorry for the spam. After some thought - I shouldn't have made this change to `weak_ptr` here. I'll revert back to `shared_ptr` here. The `weak_ptr` here is always going to be valid because `start_outer_call()` forces a `shared_ptr` instance until `finish_outer_call()` is invoked.

The actual problem with lifetimes is fixed in #7345. This may have been what @jeffro256 was noticing, its somewhat messed up now because its not "correct" usage of `shared_ptr` / `weak_ptr` on the outer class.

This should be a `shared_ptr` and so should the one in the `deque<...>`. The internal reference in the callback here needs to be a `weak_ptr` to break the cycle and properly synchronize with destruction in all cases (it works now afaik, but is iffy and requires going through much more code to verify).

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2022-08-30T00:43:20+00:00
