---
title: Replace serialization functions
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8867
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- serialization
created_at: '2023-05-20T22:52:23+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-11-13T18:56:37+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This replaces all serialization functions (epee binary, epee json, and zmq json), except the custom binary formats for transaction and block. The design is a DOMless vtable interface for reading and writing (2 separate interfaces). The base vtable class can be used to support multiple formats with minimal executable size OR the derived class can be used directly for performance. The design re-uses existing macros, although the newer macros should be lighter on compiler resources.

Memory consumption issues are handled by having all arrays provide a constraint - either a max element count or a min size per element (i.e. `std::vector<std::string>` ideally has a min size of `sizeof(std::string)` per element to prevent memory issues on unpack).

Most importantly, reading epee binary is ~81% faster and writing epee binary is ~56% faster (I re-used the benchmark by @jeffro256 on a ryzen 3 chip). This is primarily due to the removal of the DOM entirely - everything is done on the objects directly.

Unfortunately this diff is huge, and probably has no chance of ever being merged as-is. So I will try to break things into smaller chunks, with the caveat that if nobody wants the serialization to be replaced, its best to vote within this discussion thread here.

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2023-11-07T00:42:28+00:00
Botched rebase?

## vtnerd | 2023-11-07T19:24:13+00:00
Pushed an update to fix this merge issue.

## jeffro256 | 2023-11-09T17:08:23+00:00
Is `negative` supposed to be set here?

## jeffro256 | 2023-11-09T17:14:07+00:00
I guess it doesn't matter if you only use `rapidjson_sax` exactly once 

## vtnerd | 2023-11-09T18:10:10+00:00
No, because the actual value is not negative.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2023-05-20T22:52:23+00:00
