---
title: 'wallet2: decrease the amount of data exchanged for output export'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8179
author: moneromooo-monero
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-02-12T11:39:07+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-04-06T04:06:41+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2022-04-06T04:06:41+00:00'
merged_at: '2022-04-06T04:06:41+00:00'
---

# Original Description
No description

# Discussion History
## j-berman | 2022-02-17T03:17:09+00:00
Hmm, so squaring this with view tags, either I will need to include the `boost::optional<crypto::view_tag>` type on `exported_transfer_details`, or people who import outputs this way don't get the speed-bump from view tags. Probably doesn't make much of a difference, and makes sense to leave like this

EDIT: actually it doesn't make sense for me to add view tags here at all because all outputs here are owned by the user, so it would actually just slow down the output ownership check with unnecessary extra hashes. So people who import outputs via this process won't have view tags stored on the outputs. And that seems totally fine

## j-berman | 2022-02-17T03:30:29+00:00
Seems this was supposed to be `td.m_tx.vout[etd.m_internal_output_index] = out`. E.g. I get a seg fault [over here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/9aab19f349433687c7aaf2c1cbc5751e5912c0aa/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L12657) when the position of the out in the array isn't the same as the `m_internal_output_index`

I think also need to watch out for places where the out's position in the `vout` array is interpreted as the `internal_output_index` ([like here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/9aab19f349433687c7aaf2c1cbc5751e5912c0aa/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L12598)), and handle that accordingly (when iterating over a tx with outs that don't belong to the user)

## j-berman | 2022-02-17T03:45:39+00:00
Additional optimization: could the exporter determine which tx pub key is supposed to be exported instead, rather than export the additional tx keys that the importer has to then also check?

P.S. lovin the flags :)

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-03-08T09:08:41+00:00
Can you expand on that ? m_internal_output_index is supposed to be the index in the out array.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-03-08T09:14:39+00:00
I think you're right.

## j-berman | 2022-03-08T12:54:42+00:00
Recourse for this error is a little confusing. Suggestion on this error message: `"Imported outputs omit more outputs that we know of. Try using export_outputs all."`

## j-berman | 2022-03-08T13:05:27+00:00
This overwrites `m_tx`, which is what was causing the seg fault later on in `export_key_images` that I was seeing [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8179/files#r808646275), since no more vouts. Annoyingly enough, it only happens when you re-import a 2nd time, which is probably why @r4v3r23 didn't see it in their tests

More importantly: because this block of code lives inside this `if (i + offset < original_size)`, it doesn't run on 1st import, and so the 1st import doesn't assign these values (most importantly, `m_global_output_index` doesn't get set on 1st import)

Based on my reading, seems to make sense to move this whole block of assignments right after `transfer_details &td = m_transfers[i + offset]` since it seems expected to always happen, and doesn't have much to do with `if (i + offset < original_size)`

...except for the `td = {}` assignment, don't think we want that because it just overwrites everything, can just get rid of that I think?


## j-berman | 2022-03-08T13:36:34+00:00
Seems like either need to do this, or add `add_additional_tx_pub_keys_to_extra(td.m_tx.extra, additional_tx_pub_keys)` in the `import_outputs` function

If I try to export key images after I've received to a subaddress in a tx involving >2 outputs, I hit [this failed to generate key image error](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/9aab19f349433687c7aaf2c1cbc5751e5912c0aa/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L12671-L12676), and it's fixed by the `add_additional_tx_pub_keys_to_extra`

## j-berman | 2022-03-08T13:51:23+00:00
Clarifying: I misdiagnosed the cause of the seg fault I was getting. It's not this -- this comment can be ignored I was being dumb af.

[This](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8179#discussion_r821643032) seems to have been the cause

## j-berman | 2022-03-29T01:54:31+00:00
Looks like `CMPF(m_global_output_index)` can be removed here, since it's just getting set anyway in the code above (i.e. this check should have no effect as is), and I can't think of why it would need the processing of the second half of the function if it changes (so I think removing it should be ok)

# Action History
- Created by: moneromooo-monero | 2022-02-12T11:39:07+00:00
- Merged at: 2022-04-06T04:06:41+00:00
