---
title: Bootstrappable Builds
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8929
author: tobtoht
assignees: []
labels:
- build system
created_at: '2023-07-02T19:18:13+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-01-17T14:10:49+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-12-23T15:17:38+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-12-23T15:17:38+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This PR proposes to replace Gitian with Guix to achieve bootstrappable builds for release binaries.

### What?

https://youtube.com/watch?v=I2iShmUTEl8

If you have 15 minutes, please consider watching this presentation by Carl Dong linked above as it covers the migration (Gitian → Guix) this PR proposes to make. It explains why reproducibility alone is not enough.

Other resources:

- https://github.com/Sjors/nado-book/blob/master/attacks/guix.md
- https://bootstrappable.org

### Why?

- **Greater build system security**: Bootstrappability allows us to _audit and reproduce_ our toolchain instead of blindly _trusting_ binary downloads. Our build environment can be built from source, [all the way down](https://guix.gnu.org/en/blog/2023/the-full-source-bootstrap-building-from-source-all-the-way-down/). It allows us to reduce our supply chain attack surface by only including the packages that we need, and nothing else.

- **Easier to set up**: Guix runs on any Linux distribution and on most architectures (x86_64, aarch64, riscv64). To produce reproducible release binaries, you only need to install Guix and run the build script. This hopefully leads to more participants in the pre-release verified reproduction process.

- **More flexibility**: Unlike Gitian, we are not limited to the package set of a particular Ubuntu version. Guix allows us to pick and choose our toolchains. This allows us to use the latest compilers while targeting older versions of glibc and would, for example, make it easier to add a modern Rust compiler to our build environment. Packages that are not available in Guix can easily be defined in the manifest or upstreamed.

- **Better developer UX**: Guix allows us to modify any detail about our build environment with ease. Debugging build issues takes less time because we have shell access to the build environment. The monero source code is bind mounted into the container, so edits to package definitions can be tested incrementally.

- **Future proof**: Guix is actively developed, Gitian is in [maintenance mode](https://github.com/devrandom/gitian-builder) (serious bug fixes only).

### How to test?

Requirements:

- any Linux distribution
- 50 GB of free disk space
- 4 or more cores recommended
- 2 GB RAM per thread

```bash
# Install guix
$ apt install guix  # ubuntu 22.04, debian 11, or later 
or 
# use the install script: https://guix.gnu.org/manual/en/html_node/Binary-Installation.html

# Clone the repo
$ git clone https://github.com/tobtoht/monero
$ cd monero
$ git checkout guix

# Run the builds
$ ./contrib/guix/guix-build  # this will take several hours, uses all available cores
or
$ JOBS=N ./contrib/guix/guix-build # replace N with the desired maximum number of threads

# Obtain a list of hashes
$ uname --machine && find guix/guix-build-$(git rev-parse --short=12 HEAD)/output/ -type f -print0 | env LC_ALL=C sort -z | xargs -r0 sha256sum
```

For more information, see README.md

### Notes

| Environment   | Guix version (NEW)         | Gitian version (OLD) |
|---------------|----------------------------|----------------------|
| Guix          | `53396a22af` (28 Aug 2024) | n/a                  |
| Glibc         | 2.27                       | 2.27                 |
| Binutils      | 2.38                       | 2.30                 |
| GCC           | 12.4.0                     | 7.5.0                |
| Clang         | 11.1.0 (darwin, freebsd)   | 9.0.0                |
| Linux headers | 6.1.106 (LTS)*              | 5.4.0                |

\* this does not affect run-time kernel requirements, see [glibc docs](https://sourceware.org/glibc/wiki/FAQ#What_version_of_the_Linux_kernel_headers_should_be_used.3F).

The `guix.yml` workflow does not use caching because it uses too much space and causes evictions for other caches (10 GB limit). We only need to run it when there is a change to `contrib/{depends,guix}`, which happens infrequently and doesn't need to complete quickly.

This PR removes `native_clang` because Guix provides us with a bootstrapped package and non-guix builds can use the system clang. This PR introduces backwards incompatible compiler flags, bumping the minimum Clang version to 10 (up from 9) for depends builds. Clang >=10 is available in the package managers of all supported distros (including Ubuntu 18.04).

The minimum glibc version for all Linux targets is now 2.27 (Ubuntu 18.04, Debian 10), for more details see https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9171#issuecomment-1952926105.

The source archive now includes all submodules.

### Q&A

**What role does Guix serve in the build process?**

Guix is used to set-up a reproducible, bootstrappable, containerized build environment. This replaces the Ubuntu 18.04 based environment we used for Gitian builds.

Monero dependencies are built using the `depends` build system inside the container provided by Guix. While Guix could eventually replace `depends`, it would be too drastic for this PR. 

**Can Guix run on any Linux distribution?**

Yes, with few exceptions. Installing Guix on an immutable distro like Fedora SilverBlue might not be possible.

To install Guix, use the official install script: https://guix.gnu.org/manual/en/html_node/Binary-Installation.html

**Can Guix run on macOS or Windows?**

Not natively. You can run Guix builds on macOS inside a virtual machine (even on Apple Silicon). On Windows, it should be possible to install Guix on WSL2.

**Can Guix run on aarch64 / riscv64 machines?**

Yes. It even produces the same bit-identical release binaries as Guix run on a x86_64 machine. This isn't possible with Gitian.

Targets that don't currently build on non-x86_64: Android, FreeBSD.

**Are Guix builds slower than Gitian?**

Guix builds are only slower the first time, because it needs to build toolchains (or the entire package graph if `--no-substitutes` is used) from source. Subsequent runs just as fast (or faster) than Gitian due to caching.

**Why Guix instead of Nix?**

Nix packages are not bootstrappable.

**What does bootstrappable mean in this context?**

It means that the package graph for all packages included in our build environment is rooted in a single 357-byte heavily annotated program. We no longer have to trust binaries (downloaded from Ubuntu servers) for reproducible builds.

For more information: https://guix.gnu.org/en/blog/2023/the-full-source-bootstrap-building-from-source-all-the-way-down/

**If a new version of Guix is released, does that mean our build environment is no longer reproducible?**

No, builds remain reproducible indefinitely, assuming the source code for all packages is archived and remains available. The exact version of Guix, including all of its packages is pinned using [time-machine](https://guix.gnu.org/manual/en/html_node/Invoking-guix-time_002dmachine.html).

More information: 

- https://guix.gnu.org/blog/2024/source-code-archiving-in-guix-new-publication/
- https://guix.gnu.org/en/blog/2024/adventures-on-the-quest-for-long-term-reproducible-deployment/

**How do we define which packages are included in the build environment?**

In `manifest.scm`. In this file, we can choose packages that are already available in Guix or define packages ourselves.

**When should we define packages in the manifest?**

If a package, specific package version, or toolchain isn't available in Guix and it isn't possible to upstream or we can't we can't wait on that.

**Is the build environment identical for all targets?**

No, extra packages can be added for each target.

**If we change the time-machine commit, does that mean our build environment changes?**

Yes. The manifest generally does not specify which packages versions are included in the build environment. If a package was updated in Guix between the old and new commit, we will have the updated version in our build environment. Updating the time-machine can therefore cause breakage and should be done with caution.

**How do I get shell access to the build environment for development purposes?**

In `contrib/guix/guix-build` replace `bash -c "cd /monero && bash contrib/guix/libexec/build.sh"` with `bash`.

Then invoke with: `FORCE_DIRTY_WORKTREE=1 ./contrib/guix/guix-build`.

**Where to start review?**

`contrib/guix/README.md`
↓
`contrib/guix/guix-build`
↓
`contrib/guix/manifest.scm`
↓
`contrib/guix/libexec/build.sh`

### Troubleshooting

- Might segfault during compilation on first generation Ryzen processors due to a [hardware fault](https://old.reddit.com/r/Amd/comments/6ubmd1/ryzen_compilation_segfaults_positive_rma/).
- Ubuntu 24.04: If you run into `mount "none" on "/tmp/guix-directory.": Permission denied`  you need to create an apparmor profile for Guix, see: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8929#issuecomment-2325048697

### Follow-up PRs

- #9207
- #9440


# Discussion History
## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T12:56:36+00:00
Used to distinguish between host and build calls to `gen_id.sh`.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T12:59:56+00:00
We need to unset these environment variables here because they refer to Guix profile packages. We want clang to only include headers from the NDK. We can't unset them in `build.sh` because `native_` package builds would fail to find the necessary include headers. Unsetting these variables does not affect non-Guix builds.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:01:05+00:00
Boost 1.64.0 doesn't recognize that we're building with Clang and passes a flags that results in an error. We don't support GCC < 4.0 at all, so commenting out the lines here is fine. Patch can be dropped when we update Boost.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:04:28+00:00
`riscv64-linux-gnu` builds fail without this patch

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:05:23+00:00
Building on aarch64 should produce bit-for-bit identical release binaries.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:06:22+00:00
This list declares which packages are included in the container environment. It should reflect the minimal set of packages we need for builds and build debugging.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:08:33+00:00
Like current release archives, use `.tar.bz2` for all targets except Windows.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:09:02+00:00
Ensures rpath in the resulting binaries is empty.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:11:19+00:00
We need to do this because the dynamic linker does not exist at a standard path in the Guix container. Binaries wouldn't be able to start in other environments. Check with:

`patchelf --print-interpreter /path/to/binary`

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:15:36+00:00
Keep a record of the depends packages and their hashes that will be used for our build. If there is a reproducibility issue, comparing this log file could help narrow down which package is responsible for the defect.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:18:41+00:00
Instead, we define `freebsd_CC` and `freebsd_CCX` in `hosts/freebsd.mk` to point to the system clang. 

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:21:07+00:00
Prevent clang from including OpenSSL headers from the system base. We statically link our own version of OpenSSL.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:23:42+00:00
The shebang doesn't point to an existing file in the Guix environment.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:26:04+00:00
Timestamp of Monero block [#1](https://xmrchain.net/block/1). Only used depends packages. Source archive and binary tarballs use the commit date.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:28:50+00:00
All 12 targets that Gitian currently supports.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:30:47+00:00
Useful for CI environments where you only want to build Guix packages so they can be cached. Currently unused.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:35:18+00:00
Using `git ls-files --recurse-submodules` instead of `git archive` to make sure submodules are included in the source archive. 

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:37:27+00:00
No Guix specific maintenance is needed when preparing a release.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:41:49+00:00
> time-machine

See: https://guix.gnu.org/manual/en/html_node/Invoking-guix-time_002dmachine.html

Ensures all builders have an identical build environment.

The timemachine URL is set to https://github.com/tobtoht/guix.git because the official repo on git.savannah.gnu.org often fails to fetch during CI runs for whatever reason. There used to be a mirror at [guix-mirror/guix](https://github.com/guix-mirror/guix), but it is now out of service. Reviewers ought to confirm the pinned commit is a legit hash.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:44:59+00:00
GCC 10 is included in all builds environments. For targets where we cross-compile with Clang it is used to build `native_` depends packages.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:45:34+00:00
`perl` is needed to build OpenSSL.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:50:59+00:00
The Android NDK toolchain cannot (yet) be bootstrapped. The compiler binaries included in the NDK have their dynamic interpreter set to the standard x86_64 interpreter path, which does not exist in this location in the Guix environment.

The alternative was `patchelf`-ing all binaries included in the NDK, but this is hacky and adds a dependency on `patchelf` for non-Guix builders.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T13:53:06+00:00
This is useful when debugging reproducibility issues in depends packages. Skips ahead to the next target, so we don't spend time building Monero binaries.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T14:00:36+00:00
Finished builds are available in `./guix/guix-build-<COMMIT>/`

```
├── guix-build-222ea1a30058
│   ├── build
│   │   └── distsrc-222ea1a30058-x86_64-linux-gnu  # build directory
│   ├── logs
│   │   └── x86_64-linux-gnu  # various logs for reproducibility debugging
│   │       ├── depends-hashes.txt
│   │       ├── depends-packages.txt
│   │       ├── guix-env.txt
│   │       ├── guix-hashes.txt
│   │       └── SHA256SUMS.part
│   ├── output
│   │   └── x86_64-linux-gnu
│   │       └── monero-x86_64-linux-gnu-222ea1a30058.tar.bz2  # binary tarball
│   └── var
│       ├── precious_dirs  # directories to keep when running `./contrib/guix/guix-clean`
│       └── profiles
```

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T14:01:21+00:00
`_unpacked` target doesn't exist.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T14:13:00+00:00
`patchelf` is unused. It is occasionally useful for debugging.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T14:15:21+00:00
Force Trezor support for release binaries.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T14:21:26+00:00
Delay expansion of package variables.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T14:23:45+00:00
I removed guix and depends package caching from the CI workflow because it uses too much space and causes evictions for other caches (10 GB limit). We only need to run it when there is a change to `contrib/{depends,guix}`, which happens infrequently and doesn't need to complete quickly.

`on: [push, pull_request]` is temporary for testing.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T14:24:39+00:00
It may be worth investigating if using the installer script is faster.

https://guix.gnu.org/manual/en/html_node/Installation.html

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T14:27:59+00:00
The minimum glibc version for all Linux targets is now 2.27 (Ubuntu 18.04, Debian 10).

For more context, see: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9171#issuecomment-1952926105

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T14:31:59+00:00
We can't actually check if submodules are checked out here because we're building in an extracted source archive.

The `guix-build` script runs `git submodule update --init --recursive --progress` before starting a build to make sure submodules are checked out.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T17:19:43+00:00
Prevent clang from including readline headers from the SDK. We statically link our own version of readline.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T17:21:32+00:00
We're now using the system / guix-provided clang for darwin builds.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T17:26:09+00:00
CMake automatically reduces `CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER` to the first command to derive `CMAKE_ASM_COMPILER`. This happens to be `env` instead of `clang`, so we need to set it explicitly.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-25T17:29:06+00:00
These are automatically set by Guix, but don't necessarily point to the correct paths. This is fixed below.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-26T11:17:06+00:00
Increase verbosity of `final_build_id_long` to ease debugging reproducibility issues.

## tobtoht | 2024-02-26T11:19:17+00:00
Any change to `manifest.scm` invalidates the cache.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-08-11T14:29:22+00:00
Quick question. Do we need this if we are building with GUIX? Since the premise of GUIX is sandboxed builds. 

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-08-11T15:28:53+00:00
I have nothing against using `https://github.com/tobtoht/guix.git`. But quick question, there is no way to use the official repo? Or at least report to them the failure? 

## tobtoht | 2024-08-11T16:09:50+00:00
It's just to free up disk space. See https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/pull/4223

## nahuhh | 2024-08-11T16:22:26+00:00
Should we switch to debian (12)?

## tobtoht | 2024-08-11T16:26:22+00:00
~Oh, that might fix the AppArmor issue. Good suggestion, will try.~

Nvm, GitHub only has Linux runners for Ubuntu.

## tobtoht | 2024-08-11T16:40:08+00:00
The entire repository needs to be pulled for each CI build. I haven't yet found a way to cache this. Pulling from Github repos is much faster (and reliable) than external repos, even if GNU fixes their rate limiting.

I can change this so only GitHub CI uses my fork and the official URL is used for local builds. Another option would be to create a fork under `monero-project/guix`.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-08-11T17:47:43+00:00
My vote is `monero-project/guix` .

## nahuhh | 2024-08-11T20:53:55+00:00
https://github.com/monero-project/guix

## tobtoht | 2024-08-11T20:57:04+00:00
Thank you. Can you also push the `keyring` branch? Guix needs it to authenticate commits.

## nahuhh | 2024-08-11T21:25:53+00:00
Done

## tobtoht | 2024-08-11T21:29:17+00:00
Updated.

## nahuhh | 2024-08-11T21:42:26+00:00
Is this the same issue with buggy gcc version 10-11 compiler? (Is this solved on gcc <=9 and >=12+?)

## tobtoht | 2024-08-11T22:30:18+00:00
Unrelated, patch fixes a missing include in glibc. Monero codebase doesn't contain ` __has_include__`. Log for reference:

```
../sysdeps/unix/sysv/linux/riscv/flush-icache.c:24:10: fatal error: asm/syscalls.h: No such file or directory
   24 | #include <asm/syscalls.h>
      |          ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
compilation terminated.
```

Patch can be removed when we upgrade glibc to > 2.27.

## tobtoht | 2024-08-13T17:48:47+00:00
It now does for linux, windows, and macos targets. FreeBSD and Android targets use pre-compiled x86_64 toolchains and libraries.

## tobtoht | 2024-08-26T13:48:34+00:00
This patch will be removed in #9456

## tobtoht | 2024-08-26T13:49:32+00:00
This patch will be removed in #9162

## iamamyth | 2024-10-28T22:33:31+00:00
It would make more sense to me if you just inlined this file because nothing else needs it. If you want to keep this as a single step, you can just put a trivial three-command script here, which will be run via the shell (e.g. tee with a heredoc and then the reload/enforce).

## iamamyth | 2024-10-28T22:47:03+00:00
Does `realpath -e` not work on these machines or something?

## iamamyth | 2024-10-29T00:05:03+00:00
Can you inline the above as a comment, just to keep track of the upgrade path here? For example (just copied your comments and added boost bugfix version):
```
Boost 1.64.0 doesn't recognize that we're building with Clang and passes a flags that results in an error. We don't support GCC < 4.0 at all, so commenting out the lines here is fine. Patch can be dropped when we update to Boost <insert bugfix version>
```

## iamamyth | 2024-10-29T00:20:32+00:00
What about just using `find` here?

## tobtoht | 2024-10-29T12:33:46+00:00
`sha256sum_fragments=($(find "$LOGDIR_BASE" -name "SHA256SUMS.part"))`

would split on potential white spaces in the path. Is there a better way?

## tobtoht | 2024-10-29T12:38:21+00:00
I don't think we actually need a portable implementation here, since `realpath` is available by default on practically every Linux distribution.

## iamamyth | 2024-10-29T18:07:16+00:00
Sorry, didn't get a chance to finish my thoughts on this file earlier: I think you can structure the pipeline a bit differently by doing separate traversals for each file category (adds a dir scan to hopefully simplify the logic). Then, you can use the `find -print0 | xargs -0` pattern, and your error handling becomes a check on whether the outputs are empty; partial example:
```
find "$LOGDIR_BASE" -path "$LOGDIR_BASE/*-codesigned" -prune -o -name "SHA256SUMS.part" -print0 | xargs -0 sort -u /dev/null | basenameify_SHA256SUMS | sort -k2
```

Because nocodesigned fragments are mandatory, you end up with a pretty nice overall program flow:
1. Process/validate nocodesigned fragments (error if empty file).
2. Process/validate codesigned fragments (info if empty file).

## iamamyth | 2024-10-31T20:30:44+00:00
Is there a particular convention you want these templates to follow? Seems it's a bit all over the map, as I see `:[key]:value` here, `:[key]value:` in contrib/depends/funcs.mk, etc. I suggest picking a convention which both a human and machine can read easily (i.e. a simple procedure, which can easily be implemented in code and by the human brain, not necessarily the fastest). With that in mind, if you want to use `:` as a separator between pairs, it probably shouldn't also be used after the key.

## tobtoht | 2024-10-31T20:51:37+00:00
The colon separator is replaced with a newline in the final output (`depends-hashes.txt`) and is easily diff-able:

```
[boost_all_file_checksums]
5419a1f3ae6346deeb4ad5d60964f09a2afd443e75f86bff52032cfd6b1e5189 
2948dc359030cbd8fe411bc544212d7cf7c3308643aec3b550ddda17d512802f 
884976d97b7a386c4c0c4aeb3e0ffe40848481d0fd5f379044815ca1e24f5622 
0ddb4c9faeb4443251af83ef8924cc2579c225d8e3cc7a1b65fc206e22b0b4f2 
20a3fff6d950af9b70daf3ab005f6ba19c0b069970470e1ca81ee1e626ffe680 
897adbccc9b4bd22585dde1c443a119eaa5e01641b43b3d5960f7137197b3b54 
7284e8b6e1471f20c0e12d3f99f4301b1bc4368fd5b7d330557386939a136d24

[recipe]
unbound-1.19.1-8a76263f0ba3f0bc927efe0b29ff3067a58dbcf4d45126b42cef26bffde55c26-Release
[deps]
expat-2.6.0-ea84dd3e3694465ec4a470c96e79089ed11cbc13f43a3201094dda24c0c11814 
openssl-3.0.13-348c61a404a4575b3270d742dce1e58b5c6b0e140d67030fe20b5c15d5e6cd38
[x86_64_linux_id]
/gnu/store/03rfvpz53ab1klw20j5padpxmygcmksl-profile

[sha256sum]
1e82b195b37594b1753317b0b864dd036af3e1b7812dc6825df7362872158933  toolchain.cmake.in
```

I can probably turn this into valid yaml with minor modifications to the code, so that it's easily machine readable.

## iamamyth | 2024-10-31T21:20:19+00:00
Why would `cat` be helpful/necessary here?

## iamamyth | 2024-10-31T21:23:39+00:00
I wonder if this would be clearer if you just had a `*` in the case statement and pushed these two lines into the case, where appropriate. Is the `find` command even helpful on non-linux/gnu hosts?

## iamamyth | 2024-10-31T21:24:17+00:00
This seems more like an `if` than a `case`.

## iamamyth | 2024-10-31T21:37:41+00:00
No need to make it valid YAML, the format you have is easily parseable, I misread one of the foreach statements (didn't notice it was adding a newline with echo).

## tobtoht | 2024-11-01T17:54:11+00:00
I'd like to keep it structured like this so it's easy to add new target specific cxxflags in the future.

## tobtoht | 2024-11-01T17:54:35+00:00
It isn't, oops.

## tobtoht | 2024-11-01T17:56:24+00:00
I simplified the script based on your feedback. I also removed the {non,}codesigned logic, since I don't think we have plans to add codesigning for release binaries in the near future. Should that change, we can add the logic then.

## tobtoht | 2024-11-01T17:57:37+00:00
I cleaned this up. We have logic to set the optimization level for Release builds inside `CMakeLists.txt`, so setting it here is redundant/unnecessary.

## tobtoht | 2024-11-01T18:00:15+00:00
Forgot to adjust `guix-verify` based on these changes, will do that later.

## iamamyth | 2024-11-03T16:25:25+00:00
You could make this a single loop over all the `precious_dir_names` with an if/else based on containment in `depends_precious_dir_names`, such that the action is shared (echo), and only the resolution mechanism differs.

## iamamyth | 2024-11-03T16:39:17+00:00
No caller seems to use the `SUFFIX` arg.

## iamamyth | 2024-11-03T16:40:07+00:00
Same here, the SUFFIX functionality finds no use.

## iamamyth | 2024-11-03T16:40:48+00:00
Here as well, SUFFIX support could be removed.

## iamamyth | 2024-11-03T17:02:04+00:00
This function is easy to get wrong and could use a test suite: For safety, you'd want to check that the child starts with "$parent/". Otherwise, as it stands, you get results such as:
```
$ under_dir /tmp /tmpx/config.py  
x/config.py
```

Also, while this function name is clear enough in the local context, if you end up making it a library function, I'd consider something such as `path_contains`, to emphasize that it's just testing path-based containment, not actual containment. As for testing, you could just put this function in its own file, then source it here and via the test (dumping it into one huge library has the disadvantage that, as the library grows, the set of false implicit dependencies grows, which makes scripts more bloated).

## iamamyth | 2024-11-03T17:07:18+00:00
One other thing: Normally it's helpful to, in addition to adding a "/" to parent, support the case where parent already contains one (pretty easy to do by e.g. dropping all trailing slashes and then adding one).

## iamamyth | 2024-11-03T17:14:18+00:00
I'm a bit confused as to the policy here: Other files also appear to check for a superset of these commands. It would make sense to me if the prelude checked for tools required by the prelude (realpath, cat, git), and each script checked for the tools it needs.

## iamamyth | 2024-11-03T17:21:03+00:00
Might want to explicitly add `--text` here.

## tobtoht | 2024-12-08T15:38:12+00:00
I fixed the edge cases in this function. Since the function is only used here, I didn't want to move it.

I believe I have addressed all your comments.

## iamamyth | 2024-12-09T00:48:12+00:00
Just going to post this here as a line comment, but it applies throughout: Some folks have very strong opinions on using cat rather than echo/printf in these situations; I don't really care, but I will just note that
```
cat <<EOF
...
EOF
```

can be expressed as:

```
echo -n "\
...
"
```

where `...` is a placeholder for a multi-line string.

# Action History
- Created by: tobtoht | 2023-07-02T19:18:13+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-12-23T15:17:38+00:00
