---
title: 'wallet2: move /gettransactions invocations to node_rpc_proxy'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8605
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-10-05T19:07:03+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-12-20T17:58:49+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2022-12-20T17:58:48+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
In the future, I plan to wrap all RPC invocations into node_rpc_proxy, those PRs can come later, but this will definitely be one of the bigger ones. This is not just refactoring for the sake of refactoring, however. I plan to implement a "community node" feature for wallet2, which would allow direct connections to different secured daemons without a dependency on starting a local p2p process.

In order to do this, we need one streamlined RPC interface for wallet2. Even if this "community node" feature does not come to fruition, abstracting away the RPC invocation details into a different class will allow us to easily do multi-threaded RPC requests, more responsive public node requests, etc, while the interface remains extremely simple. Also, if (when) the big wallet3 redesign comes around, this will make transitioning easier. 

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2022-10-13T04:05:56+00:00
For the changes in `scan_tx`, as well as updating to a `get_transactions()` call in place of the old RPC code, I changed the transaction priority queue container into a vector and then sorted at the end. This provides the same behavior since processing isn't intermingled with collecting, but should speed up `scan_tx` since the whole queue is only sorted once. 

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2022-10-05T19:07:03+00:00
- Closed at: 2022-12-20T17:58:48+00:00
