---
title: 'wallet_rpc_server: add daemon connection check'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8317
author: reemuru
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-05-06T15:48:34+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-07-31T15:16:57+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2022-07-31T15:16:44+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Resolves #8316

Add check_connection boolean flag to the set_daemon wallet rpc
command in order to validate that the daemon is actually connected.
At the bare minimum a valid daemon address should be passed along
with this flag. If no valid address is passed or the current address
has a daemon that is no longer running error code -38 is returned.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2022-05-07T20:13:34+00:00
I think that this field would better be named something else like `check_connection` because it's a flag/request to the wallet to do something rather than the response itself.

## jeffro256 | 2022-05-07T20:18:05+00:00
This  is up for debate, as it *may* break people's expectations of this RPC call, but I think that the connection checking should default to `true`. This depends on how most people use this function, but I think it makes the most sense to fail if the daemon you try setting can't be connected to, even if updating just the information itself succeeded. Discerning between the 2 scenarios can be left up to error codes.

## reemuru | 2022-05-07T21:48:34+00:00
Since the wallet rpc will fail fast if a user attempts to start with no daemon running this extension of the rpc would most likely be useful after the fact. Enter in the last known good address with this flag to ensure it is still online. My mindset was that the bug is missing functionality / error code so I left it as false in order to maintain backwards compatibility. Let's see what others think as well. @woodser do you think this will suffice for #8314?

## reemuru | 2022-05-08T04:11:22+00:00
changed to `check_connection` on [e71d7f6](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8317/commits/e71d7f64509ba39d911b40aa64b71725fcec652f)

# Action History
- Created by: reemuru | 2022-05-06T15:48:34+00:00
- Closed at: 2022-07-31T15:16:44+00:00
