---
title: Fix languages list being defined twice and add language validation on wallet
  creation
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8261
author: eversinc33
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-04-16T01:16:22+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-04-20T15:09:07+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Hi. First contribution here, so please let me know if I can improve something.

I changed `electrum-words.cpp`, since the list of languages was defined in two separate places, which has a potential to introduce bugs in the future, if only one list is updated. Here, the `get_language_list`-function should be used. 

I addiotonally removed two TODOs by adding validation of the language when creating a wallet. I figured it would be fine to include both fixes in a single PR, because the changes are small and both related to the same module.

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2022-04-18T17:28:23+00:00
The order here differs slightly from the one in `get_language_list`, which could theoretically change the behavior of this function in case of languages with shared words.

## eversinc33 | 2022-04-18T18:53:00+00:00
That's right, although I do believe that this should not be an issue, as long as OldEnglish comes after English?

## iamamyth | 2022-04-19T16:11:22+00:00
I think it's improbable, but possible, that it could break behavior for someone. What happens if you make the canonical ordering the one used by the restore list, so as not to change the restoration behavior?

## eversinc33 | 2022-04-19T19:26:26+00:00
That would be possible, but then this *could* change the behaviour of all the other function that use `get_language_list`. 

## iamamyth | 2022-04-20T00:08:26+00:00
I appreciate that, absent further analysis, modifying get_language_list *could* break its callers, but that seems like a question that can be determined empirically, and possibly corrected, as well, whereas the callers of "restore wallet" are end-users who already have created wallets. That said, if the language selection in restore wallet were already ambiguous (apart from the case of "old english"), that would present a problem irrespective of this change. When choosing a particular path, it helps to clarify the rationale for the choice, and the potential problems, so that reviewers can assess risk and match user reports to issues considered during review.

## eversinc33 | 2022-04-20T15:06:12+00:00
That makes sense. Pushed a new commit to use the order from `find_seed_lang`.

## eversinc33 | 2022-04-20T15:09:07+00:00
I also checked each use of `get_language_list` and don't see any use where the order could be important.

# Action History
- Created by: eversinc33 | 2022-04-16T01:16:22+00:00
