---
title: Remove dead code from parserse_base_utils and fix unit tests
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8228
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-03-26T18:54:03+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-04-22T20:02:25+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2022-04-06T04:22:46+00:00'
merged_at: '2022-04-06T04:22:46+00:00'
---

# Original Description
* Remove `match_string()`, `match_number()`, and `match_word()`
* Remove `match_word_with_extrasymb()` and `match_word_til_equal_mark()`
* Adapt unit test for `match_number()` to `match_number2()`
* Adapt unit test for `match_string()` to `match_string2()`

Note: the unit tests were testing for the old version of the functions, and
the interfaces for these functions changed slightly, so I had to also edit
the tests.

As of writing, this PR has no merge conflicts with #8211

# Discussion History
## UkoeHB | 2022-03-26T19:08:48+00:00
This `si` variable seems unnecessary (just one more odd thing from this ancient code). You could replace the `si` parameter passing with `s.begin()`. The same goes for `i` in the other unit test.

## UkoeHB | 2022-03-26T19:17:35+00:00
Ok maybe not... this function parameter is a non-const l-value reference, which can't be initialized from an r-value... sigh.

On deeper reading, this is actually an in/out parameter which can be updated. So the unit test is correct. My gut reaction was overblown ^.^. It's only use-case, `portable_storage_from_json`, is pretty ugly so I rest my case lol.

## mj-xmr | 2022-03-27T10:25:18+00:00
it's a bad idea to leave these 2 basic types unassigned at declaration. They will be deterministically auto-assigned in the debug mode to `false`, but assigned nondeterministically in the release mode.

Since the expected result is that these become `false`, I suggest that they be assigned `true` at their declaration..

## mj-xmr | 2022-03-27T10:26:56+00:00
... and reassigned to `true` before this line:

`is_float_val = is_float_val = true`

## mj-xmr | 2022-03-27T10:27:23+00:00
same here

## mj-xmr | 2022-03-27T10:28:16+00:00
and here obviously:

`is_float_val = false; is_signed_val = true`

(the opposite of what's expected)

and so on...

## iamamyth | 2022-03-28T18:39:26+00:00
I think it would be more readable and less error-prone to split match_number and match_number2 into separate tests and structure the `number2` cases as a loop over a sequence of "test scenario" structs consisting of the input and the expected out values. This way, you clarify how to exercise the code under test (preconditions and postconditions), have clear rules for state initialization, and it's trivial to add tests as warranted. The test assertions can include the input value as the message in order to make the failure clear, rather than using line numbers.

I realize that perhaps you ended up with copy/paste because that was the original design, but at this point the refactor creates *less* noise because the original code was much briefer and somewhat incorrect, so applying the corrections in a single location makes the review simpler, as opposed to copy/pasting many lines into many places.

## jeffro256 | 2022-03-28T23:03:11+00:00
@iamamyth I'm deleting `match_number()`, as it is unused, so this should be the only unit test for `parsing.number`. Looping through a list of structs is good idea though, I think I'll do that

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2022-03-26T18:54:03+00:00
- Merged at: 2022-04-06T04:22:46+00:00
