---
title: tx_extra limitation fix [release-v0.18]
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8806
author: SChernykh
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2023-03-27T17:30:39+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-03-29T08:21:32+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2023-03-29T08:21:31+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
- Fixed connection drop when a big tx_extra is received from another node
- Double check for MAX_TX_EXTRA_SIZE before sending out ZMQ txpool_event notifications to properly mark them as `invalid`

The second fix (ZMQ notifications) is to stop the notification spam when a new block with big tx_extra transactions is received - it brings unneccessary load to p2pool miners.

# Discussion History
## UkoeHB | 2023-03-27T17:40:22+00:00
This looks very fragile to me, what if `add_new_tx()` fails because the tx extra is too big _and_ something else?

## SChernykh | 2023-03-27T17:44:52+00:00
If there is something else wrong with the transaction, there are 2 possibilities:
- `add_new_tx` fails before `tx_extra` check, then it will set some other flag in `tvc[i]`, and `m_tx_extra_too_big` will stay `false`, so this code will behave exactly as before
- `tx_extra` check fails first, then `add_new_tx` never gets to another failing check - in this case the current node will not drop connection, even if another peer sent an invalid transaction.

In both cases the transaction doesn't get added to node's mempool, and in the second case it's not relayed and never gets mined by any node, because it's invalid for both old and new nodes. I don't see how it can be fragile.

## SChernykh | 2023-03-27T17:47:01+00:00
In short: the worst case, some connections that should've been dropped, will not be dropped sometimes, but invalid transactions will never be relayed or added to mempool.

## UkoeHB | 2023-03-27T18:01:39+00:00
"it works because spaghetti" = fragile

## SChernykh | 2023-03-27T18:06:58+00:00
Please constructive notes only. This PR was created not to refactor the code.

## SChernykh | 2023-03-27T18:29:42+00:00
~~@UkoeHB I can change `tx_memory_pool::add_tx` to perform tx_extra check last, so second case will never happen. Then "tx extra is too big and something else" case will result in exactly the same node behavior as before this PR. Will it be good enough for you?~~
Edit: it was a bad idea. It's better to keep tx_extra check before the other CPU heavy checks, or it will be possible to spam a node with the same transaction that fails tx_extra check and make it use a lot of CPU.

## UkoeHB | 2023-03-27T19:48:42+00:00
> I don't see how it can be fragile.

It's fragile because it depends on complex inner workings of `add_new_tx()`. Any reasonable person who looks at this code should be able to know it is correct without becoming an expert in how `add_new_tx()` works.

Your best bet here would be changing `add_new_tx()` (and the downstream function `tx_memory_pool::add_tx()`) to return a result enum instead of setting flags in `tvc`. That way it's obvious the function only returns one thing.

## UkoeHB | 2023-03-27T19:56:28+00:00
In fact, looking at it closer, the test for 'tx extra too big' isn't even the last test in `tx_memory_pool::add_tx()`. So you can implicitly have a whole slew of things wrong with your tx in addition to the tx extra being too big, but the `tvc` won't record them.

Aside from a major refactor to fix this mess, you could pass a flag to `tx_memory_pool::add_tx()` that tells it to ignore the tx extra too big error. Or better yet, pass the max tx extra size by value instead of using a baked-in config value.

## jeffro256 | 2023-03-27T20:01:44+00:00
Why is this check necessary? `m_added_to_pool` is only ever set *after* the `tx.extra` checks in `add_new_tx`. In other words, it seems redundant because `m_added_to_pool` will be false if `tx.extra` is too big anyways. 

## SChernykh | 2023-03-27T20:04:03+00:00
Please stop. This is not a refactoring PR. I won't do any of that here.

## UkoeHB | 2023-03-27T20:05:45+00:00
> So you can implicitly have a whole slew of things wrong with your tx in addition to the tx extra being too big, but the tvc won't record them.

This is a critical bug.

## SChernykh | 2023-03-27T20:15:21+00:00
I'm telling you it's not. tvc will record "too big tx extra", and it will still record `tvc.m_verifivation_failed = true;`, so all code handling tvc will treat this transaction as invalid. Converstaion over, I will not change this logic.

## SChernykh | 2023-03-27T20:28:45+00:00
It can happen if `kept_by_block` is true, and then I get tx spam in p2pool logs - all big tx_extra transactions get added to a new block and leak into ZMQ notifications, but they shouldn't because ZMQ notifications are supposed to notify about mempool only.

## UkoeHB | 2023-03-27T20:43:46+00:00
`m_verifivation_failed` doesn't actually do anything except log an error. I looked deeper and it looks like the result of this patch is not a critical bug (my bad), but it does change the semantics of `handle_incoming_txs()` because it can now return `true` even if `add_tx()` failed.

## SChernykh | 2023-03-27T20:48:05+00:00
Ok, this is first valid point I got in this conversation. It can potentially break `core_rpc_server::on_send_raw_tx` and `DaemonHandler::handleTxBlob`. I'll probably move the connection drop fix to `cryptonote_protocol_handler.inl` where it really belongs.

## UkoeHB | 2023-03-27T20:57:08+00:00
Issues:
- `core_rpc_server::on_send_raw_tx()` now has an inaccurate log message `LOG_PRINT_L0("[on_send_raw_tx]: tx accepted, but not relayed");`
- `DaemonHandler::handleTxBlob` now has an inaccurate log message `MERROR("[SendRawTx]: tx accepted, but not relayed");` and is more fragile because if `tvc.m_relay` somehow gets set upstream then the function will be broken

EDIT: sorry, didn't see your other msg ^

## SChernykh | 2023-03-27T22:43:00+00:00
@jeffro256 I just did a quick test by adding some logging: https://paste.debian.net/hidden/15de343a/
I can see both places filtering transactions from being sent to ZMQ subscribers, so it's correct. `tvc[i].m_added_to_pool` can be true but we still end up in the `else` branch, and the debug logging shows it.

## SChernykh | 2023-03-27T22:47:34+00:00
Correction: https://paste.debian.net/hidden/d345d788/ - now I see only the first place filtering transactions, I'll keep running it to see if the second one triggers or not.

## UkoeHB | 2023-03-27T22:55:44+00:00
> // This check can be removed as soon as updated nodes are the majority (both by hashrate and by total count)

It's not clear to me this is the best strategy/philosophy for managing the network (i.e. blacklisting nodes that don't align with your node's relay rules), you may want to bring it up in -dev.

## UkoeHB | 2023-03-27T22:56:47+00:00
> if(tvc[i].m_added_to_pool...
> but they shouldn't because ZMQ notifications are supposed to notify about mempool only.

These two things seem to be contradicting each other ^. Is there a deeper problem here with the meaning of `m_added_to_pool`?


## SChernykh | 2023-03-27T23:02:45+00:00
"can be removed" != "must be removed", not even "should be removed"

## SChernykh | 2023-03-27T23:05:03+00:00
When a new block arrives, monerod downloads missing transactions from this block, adds them to mempool for a split second and then removes them from mempool and adds them to the blockchain. All this juggling triggers ZMQ notifications which are useless to subscribers. So `m_added_to_pool` is technically correct here, but useless in practice.

## jeffro256 | 2023-03-28T06:00:35+00:00
Since downloaded transactions are "forced into" the mempool  by `kept_by_block`, can we not generalize this condition to `tvc[i].m_added_to_pool && tx_relay != relay_method::block`? This would exclude any internal blockchain shufflings inside the pool, not just for `tx_extra`. 

## SChernykh | 2023-03-28T06:07:26+00:00
I'll run with debug logging to confirm that it's only `relay_method::block` there, and if it is, I'll change to `&& tx_relay != relay_method::block`

## SChernykh | 2023-03-28T06:22:46+00:00
@jeffro256 I just realized that `kept_by_block` can make transactions stay in mempool for real, and be actually valid to be mined again, for example after a reorg. So it's a bad idea to change to `tx_relay != relay_method::block`, it's better to filter only big tx_extra.

## UkoeHB | 2023-03-28T18:28:08+00:00
"can be removed" = it's fine to remove it, but I am saying that's not necessarily true.

# Action History
- Created by: SChernykh | 2023-03-27T17:30:39+00:00
- Closed at: 2023-03-29T08:21:31+00:00
