---
title: 'FCMP++: get rid of init hash download on restore + fix deep reorg handling
  + more'
source_url: https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/pull/81
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-08-01T17:04:09+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-10-03T22:40:46+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-09-26T17:23:21+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-09-26T17:23:21+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Thank you to @nahuhh for helping test pretty extensively. His testing helped lead to this PR, and he helped test this PR directly.

This is a pretty significant facelift for wallet2's refresh:

- Gets rid of the initial block hash download on restore.
  - Removes all wallet code related to `fast_refresh`.
- Correctly handles deep reorgs for the FCMP++ integration.
  - I suspect incorrect reorg handling may have been the culprit in @ComputeryPony's #45.
  - Adds a good functional test for deep reorg handling that fails without this PR.
- Enforces contiguous syncing on top of the wallet's current sync height.
  - **If a user manually sets a high restore height, and the wallet has not yet synced up to that height but *has* already synced, the wallet throws a `needs_rescan` error to indicate the wallet must be re-scanned via `rescan_blockchain`.**
    - This was proposed by @nahuhh instead of clearing the wallet cache in this case. 
  - If the manully set restore height is higher than the daemon height, refresh returns since it has nothing to do.
- The PR utilizes the existing `short_chain_history` approach to minimize data passed between wallet and daemon to handle reorgs (as proposed by @jeffro256), with some modifications.
    - Modification 1: re-syncing `short_chain_history` every loop .
        - The original approach in wallet2: on every loop to get the next set of blocks, cut off the oldest 3 blocks (skipping genesis) prior synced from `short_chain_history`, append the most recent 3 blocks, and request.
            - Caveat: wallet2 actually wouldn't even use short_chain_history in subsequent requests after first request (the daemon prioritizes the `start_height` wallet2 included in the request), but using `short_chain_history` seemed to be the goal with wallet2 (and using `start_height` has the issue of needing to make multiple trips to the daemon to handle reorgs).
        - The problem: let's say there was a 50 block reorg between loop 1 and 2. wallet2's approach would necessitate an extra trip to the daemon to get blocks starting from 50 prior (or would request more blocks than it needed to).
        - This PR's solution: on every loop, re-sync the `short_chain_history` to *always* include the max depth block the wallet can handle reorgs back to. Thus, either the daemon will serve the blocks the wallet needs to handle any possible reorg using the `short_chain_history` optimization, or the reorg will be too deep and the wallet will not be able to handle it.
    - Modification 2: a new request param to the `getblocks.bin` RPC endpoint `block_ids_skip_common_block` so the daemon **always** aims to serve **new** blocks the wallet has not yet seen.
        - The original approach: when client requests blocks via `block_ids`, the daemon would serve contiguous blocks starting from the youngest block id the client included in the list of `block_ids`.
        - The problem: the client has already seen the youngest block (otherwise it wouldn't have the block id to request it), and so the daemon is serving an extra block that the client doesn't need.
        - This PR's solution: the client can set `block_ids_skip_common_block` to true, and the daemon will serve contiguous blocks where the first block's `prev_id` points to the youngest block id the client included in the list of `block_ids`. Thus, the client can still make sure the daemon's served blocks are contiguous to the client's already synced blocks, without needing the extra block.
    - Modification 3: if the client includes too high a height to the `on_getblockhash` RPC endpoint, the daemon serves the expected error resp.
        - The original: the daemon would serve a success response with empty hash tied to high height.
        - The problem: this is clearly a bug.. the handler should be returning false so that the daemon knows to serve the error resp.
        - This PR's solution: return false so the client will pick up on the `CORE_RPC_ERROR_CODE_TOO_BIG_HEIGHT` error and handle it accordingly.
- Establishes a mutex for the main `refresh()` loop.
    - Uhh, this should have been there from the start.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2025-08-19T17:32:33+00:00
```suggestion
      "tx " << get_transaction_hash(tx) << " included reference block that was too high");
```

Slightly easier to read

## jeffro256 | 2025-08-19T17:33:14+00:00
```suggestion
      "tx " << get_transaction_hash(tx) << " included incorrect number of tree layers");
```

## jeffro256 | 2025-08-19T17:38:31+00:00
I would prefer if this had a name that alluded to what it's doing with the logical blockchain data, not its representation, like `pop_oldest()`. Also, `m_blockchain.pop_front()` causes UB when `m_blockchain.empty()`, so I'd put a run-time check in here just in case. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-02T18:19:02+00:00
This seems like this would be quite expensive in the event of a reorg right?

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-09T03:58:29+00:00
Just realized: this probably won't work with pruned transactions

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-09T03:58:36+00:00
Same here

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-09T04:04:09+00:00
I would put this at level 3 since this will be a common happy path 

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-09T04:34:32+00:00
Why are we removing the granularity nudging? Does this not reintroduce some privacy issues with untrusted daemons? Does new calling code avoid this?

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-09T04:40:21+00:00
These exceptions will not propagate because they are ran inside `epee::misc_utils::call_befor_die`'s destructor, where all exceptions are ignored (if `epee::misc_utils::call_befor_die` did not do so, it would trigger UB). 

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-09T04:56:24+00:00
Same issue here: exception is not actually propagated 

## j-berman | 2025-09-09T06:04:48+00:00
Good spot

I'm debating returning false for pruned txs, but it's pretty tricky to know which call paths are supposed to be able to handle pruned txs. Wondering if you have more insight into this for these cirumstances:

1) [This call](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/blob/64190feb26151e186b86c27bcd7c08e2ca09db6b/src/cryptonote_core/blockchain.cpp#L3828) to `get_fcmp_tx_tree_root` is in the same scope as [this call](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/blob/64190feb26151e186b86c27bcd7c08e2ca09db6b/src/cryptonote_core/blockchain.cpp#L3875) to `ver_rct_non_semantics_simple_cached` below it. So presumably that caller *should* fail if attempting to call `get_fcmp_tx_tree_root` with a pruned tx.

2) [This call](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/blob/64190feb26151e186b86c27bcd7c08e2ca09db6b/src/cryptonote_core/blockchain.cpp#L4514) calls the tree root getter/setter internally, and would be called with the same txs as [this call](https://github.com/seraphis-migration/monero/blob/64190feb26151e186b86c27bcd7c08e2ca09db6b/src/cryptonote_core/blockchain.cpp#L4501) to `ver_non_input_consensus`. It *looks* like `ver_non_input_consensus` can potentially work with pruned txs.

Do my takeaways seem accurate to you too? If accurate (and I also want to look into it some more/validate myself), then I would probably just not call `set_fcmp_tx_tree_root` inside `batch_verify_fcmp_pp_txs` if the tx is pruned, and have get/set both return false if called on a pruned tx.

## j-berman | 2025-09-09T06:07:53+00:00
(cool with me, but fwiw, when RPC calls this it shouldn't even reach this spot because it should short-circuit here: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/d8853474f762a1e5301a658bbdd1564617a88daa/src/rpc/core_rpc_server.cpp#L725-L739)

## j-berman | 2025-09-09T06:18:17+00:00
Good spot, I actually had misunderstood the granularity as something strictly beneficial for initial hash downloading. Will bring it back.

In a somewhat related point, we could also granular-ize restore heights, clamping to the closest 1024th block (that is older than the given restore height)

## j-berman | 2025-09-09T06:18:51+00:00
Nice spot

## j-berman | 2025-09-09T07:06:24+00:00
The original intent of this granularity AFAICT is to mask the refresh start height when client moves from one daemon to another (and client may be using a different IP, so refresh height may be a persistent fingerprint that reveals the client).

It works by having the first request for blocks start clamped back to the closest block divisble by 1024.

Unfortunately with the change in place for `m_blockchain` to have a max reorg depth of 100 (and for offset to always be 100 from tip), I don't think this original code makes a lot of sense.. 90% of the time `blockchain_size` is going to end up equal to `m_blockchain.offset()`, providing basically no benefit ("hey this user is requesting 100 blocks back from when this other refresh finished" is basically the same fingerprint).

Probably the simplest solution would be to match reorg depth to granularity. If we set reorg depth to 1024, then clients are carrying around quite a bit more tree data than necessary (last chunk of every path for every block back to the reorg depth), and 1024 seems a solid figure for this granularity approach. So the optimal solution would probably then be to allow for `m_blockchain` that goes back further than `m_tree_cache`, which is going to take some re-working.

## j-berman | 2025-09-09T07:25:25+00:00
> Probably the simplest solution would be to match reorg depth to granularity. If we set reorg depth to 1024, then clients are carrying around quite a bit more tree data than necessary (last chunk of every path for every block back to the reorg depth)

Ignoring this PR for a second, `m_blockchain` is currently trimmed back to the highest checkpoint. Looking at the checkpoints table, spitballing that translates to an expected length of around 100k blocks between each update. And for people who don't update their wallets, even longer. 100k blocks * 32 bytes per hash = at least 3.2mb expected for `m_blockchain`.

Now because this PR trims `m_blockchain` down to the reorg depth, that *does* arguably give us some leeway here.

If we assume a reorg depth of 1024 blocks, that translates to a lower bound of 1024 blocks * 38 outputs in the last chunk of each block * 64 bytes =  2.5mb. That's just the leaf layer, but the layers above *should* at least be shared in higher quantities (and the 2nd layer is 18 elems per chunk).

So I do think it's reasonably justifiable to set reorg depth equal to granularity. Even more so, we could set it to 720 to actually equal an expected 1 day.

## j-berman | 2025-09-09T07:31:04+00:00
I think there is also solid justification to bump the max reorg depth because wallets legitimately cannot handle reorgs past the max depth with FCMP++

## j-berman | 2025-09-09T17:09:27+00:00
Neither of the call paths at the same scope as these functions support pruned txs, so I'm going to return false for pruned txs explicitly.

1. `ver_rct_non_semantics_simple_cached` will first fail for pruned txs inside `expand_tx_and_ver_rct_non_sem` (and obviously can't do CLSAG verif).
2. `ver_non_input_consensus` will first fail for pruned txs inside `get_transaction_weight` (and also it's collecting prunable RCT sigs on *all* RCT txs to verify semantics + range proofs).

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-09T18:01:24+00:00
Sounds good to me

## j-berman | 2025-09-11T01:50:41+00:00
> So the optimal solution would probably then be to allow for m_blockchain that goes back further than m_tree_cache, which is going to take some re-working.

As discussed in DM, I went with this in the latest

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-11T21:01:32+00:00
Is this line still supposed to be changed after the latest commit to still support granularity?

## j-berman | 2025-09-12T02:24:15+00:00
Grep `FIRST_REFRESH_GRANULARITY` you'll see where I moved the logic. I moved it because I felt it made more sense to crop `m_blockchain` in the spot I did, and simplified this code.

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-13T16:13:52+00:00
I don't think that this should necessarily be downgraded. It has helped me debug a lot of issues before 

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-13T16:14:27+00:00
Whitespace wrong

## jeffro256 | 2025-09-22T16:23:17+00:00
```suggestion
// Return true if wallet should proceed with refresh, or false if wallet should not
```

## j-berman | 2025-09-22T17:06:26+00:00
Cool with me to keep. It really fills up the logs, it gets called a lot. Maybe worth keeping in mind if the log noise ever becomes annoying to you on your end and you see a way to log level 3 this while maintaining logs where you need them, I think that would be solid

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2025-08-01T17:04:09+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-09-26T17:23:21+00:00
