---
title: 'p2p: fix back ping to discover healthy peers to connect to'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8640
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-11-16T01:22:04+00:00'
updated_at: '2023-01-11T16:38:48+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2023-01-11T16:38:47+00:00'
merged_at: '2023-01-11T16:38:47+00:00'
---

# Original Description
### Overview

When Node A receives an incoming connection from Node B, Node A will attempt to "back ping" Node B to see if Node B would be a healthy peer to connect to in the future. #8426 introduced a bug that causes Node A to fail to back ping Node B: Node A attempts to read Node B's response over an SSL stream, which errors out (looks like because Node A does not establish an SSL connection with Node B ... [see more on this here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/8520#issuecomment-1312308716)).

The back ping seems to be [a critical component of the p2p protocol for getting incoming connections](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/8520#issuecomment-1310975634) (also see [this comment](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/365fd45b031b0a5c8104195dfabb786e839cb114/src/p2p/p2p_protocol_defs.h#L277-L283)). As such, I think fixing the back ping in this PR should help resolve or alleviate the lack of incoming peers issue reported in #8520 once enough nodes on the network start running it. To be clear, if you run this PR with your node, this PR wouldn't help *you* get incoming connections directly -- the nodes your node connects to must *also* run this update in order to help *you* get incoming connections.

### The fix

The fix matches `connect_async`'s logic to [this synchronous call to connect()](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/365fd45b031b0a5c8104195dfabb786e839cb114/src/p2p/net_node.inl#L3140-L3142), ensuring that a node attempting to back ping its incoming connection will use the expected SSL setting (as the code is structured today, this specific `m_ssl_support` [appears to always be disabled](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/365fd45b031b0a5c8104195dfabb786e839cb114/src/p2p/net_node.inl#L952) since SSL isn't supported for p2p connections).

### How to manually test

Run 2 nodes, pointing one to the other. Start Node A normally with `--log-level 2` and ensure that Node A can receive incoming connections. Start Node B with the flag `--add-priority-node <Node A>` and also make sure that Node B can receive incoming connections.

Once Node B initiates the connection to Node A, make sure that Node A successfully back pings Node B. In order to make sure this happens, grep Node A's logs for "PING SUCCESS" and you should see Node B's <IP:port number>.

If you try repeating the above test without this PR, there should be no "PING SUCCESS" in the logs. A lack of "PING SUCCESS" indicates that Node A does not add Node B to its white list, which means that neither Node A nor the rest of the network will know that Node B is a healthy peer to connect to right off the bat.

Note: I plan on writing an explicit test for this behavior to ensure we don't end up breaking back ping behavior again in the future.


# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2022-11-16T01:22:04+00:00
- Merged at: 2023-01-11T16:38:47+00:00
