---
title: 'epee: fixed incorrect RNG usage'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8365
author: SChernykh
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-05-30T11:28:44+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-06-05T06:41:50+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2022-06-05T06:41:50+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Using `std::random_device` inside the loop to initialize the RNG is wrong. What it does in essence is using ~2500 bytes of entropy to get a single random value that is used for this_thread::sleep() calls. It doesn't need to be a high quality/cryptographically secure random number in this use case, so initializing RNG once in the constructor is sufficient and it doesn't deplete OS entropy source.

Also switched to `std::mt19937_64` because (1) `sizeof(std::mt19937_64) = 2504` and `sizeof(std::mt19937) = 5000`, and (2) it's more efficient on 64-bit systems.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2022-05-30T20:09:33+00:00
This is really picky but `engine` isn't a descriptive name for this. Maybe a name like `prng_engine_type` would be more appropriate. I know that's what it was named before, but since you're moving all the RNG logic anyways, might as well name it better

## jeffro256 | 2022-05-30T21:56:34+00:00
We should discuss whether or not sleeping for such an incredibly long period of time is beneficial overall, especially when there are so many other more pertinent side channel attacks against our current connection code. 
We should also not wait for such a long period inside the loop checking for the queue to drain (and thus allowing the thread to continue its execution) because this can easily cause starvation. 

## mj-xmr | 2022-05-31T04:21:49+00:00
We can always discuss it, here or somewhere else, but taking an industry-standard incremental approach involves changing as few parts of a running system as possible, and observing the effect. This helps in learning the system's nuances, while making sure, that the change isn't for the worse, since it's small enough, thus as closest to the original implementation as possible, yet still fixing a single issue.

Quite conversely to a "full rewrite", which almost always introduces new bugs, since nobody is `perfect`.

## mj-xmr | 2022-05-31T04:23:34+00:00
Yes, it sounds like a good chance to change it, but for each other PR such a change would be considered "unrelated to the intention of the overall change".

There's a valid reason for that: it would typically confuse the merging module, potentially creating merge conflicts.

## SChernykh | 2022-05-31T05:18:49+00:00
A descriptive name would make sense if it was used globally or at least throughout this file, but it's a local name used only in this function and `engine = std::mt19937_64;` just a few lines above from where it's used is a good enough description for anyone reading the code. And as pointed out, this is the name that was used before, I just moved this code here.

## mj-xmr | 2022-05-31T06:30:20+00:00
> And as pointed out, this is the name that was used before, I just moved this code here.

I'd tend to follow @jeffro256 's advice, but we've never done so this way in Monero. The project is way too serious to be taken lightly. No offence though.

## SChernykh | 2022-05-31T07:32:47+00:00
I found a better solution for this naming issue. It's only used to get the state size of the RNG, so I just did
```
constexpr size_t N = std::mt19937_64::state_size;
```

## mj-xmr | 2022-05-31T08:45:23+00:00
Thanks for adding this comment line.

It's important to declare the intention of an apparently cryptic call in a specific context.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-06-04T19:07:18+00:00
Surely if the initial state has low quality, the rest will not have higher quality ?

## SChernykh | 2022-06-04T19:13:43+00:00
If the initial state has all 0s and only a few numbers which are not 0, it will take up to 10,000 steps to recover from it: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44841819/mersenne-twister-limitations-used-in-agent-based-models
I limit it to 1000 here as a bare minimum and considering that std::random_device usually doesn't give out all 0s.

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-06-04T21:42:10+00:00
So for the purposes of this, you define quality as "passes randomness tests", rather than "has enough entropy" ?

## moneromooo-monero | 2022-06-04T21:48:25+00:00
Nevermind, it's just for sleeping in network code so we don't really care anyway.

# Action History
- Created by: SChernykh | 2022-05-30T11:28:44+00:00
- Closed at: 2022-06-05T06:41:50+00:00
