---
title: Optimized keccak implementation
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8262
author: SChernykh
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2022-04-16T10:05:59+00:00'
updated_at: '2022-05-14T15:15:32+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2022-05-10T21:47:23+00:00'
merged_at: '2022-05-10T21:47:23+00:00'
---

# Original Description
All tests were conducted on the same PC (Ryzen 5 5600X running at fixed 4.65 GHz).

Before:
```
test_cn_fast_hash<32> (100000 calls) - OK: 1 us/call
test_cn_fast_hash<16384> (1000 calls) - OK: 164 us/call
```

After:
```
test_cn_fast_hash<32> (100000 calls) - OK: 0 us/call
test_cn_fast_hash<16384> (1000 calls) - OK: 31 us/call
```

More than 5 times speedup for cn_fast_hash.

Also noticed consistent 1-2% improvement in `test_construct_tx` results. @j-berman this should also speed up view tags #8061 

# Discussion History
## j-berman | 2022-04-18T04:49:46+00:00
[Good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/a/1813008) why prefix increment is preferred over postfix in places like this for anyone else curious:

> If you're the kind who worries about efficiency, you probably broke into a sweat when you first saw the postfix increment function. That function has to create a temporary object for its return value and the implementation above also creates an explicit temporary object that has to be constructed and destructed. The prefix increment function has no such temporaries...

## j-berman | 2022-04-18T06:21:36+00:00
Re-declaring `t` here. Perhaps not ideal but I don't see any issues with doing this

## j-berman | 2022-04-18T06:24:16+00:00
(I explicitly tested this section yields equivalent values for all elements of `st` as the old approach just to check my sanity)

## j-berman | 2022-04-18T07:08:28+00:00
Seems like setting `bc[2]`, `bc[3]`, and `bc[4]` here has no impact on the logic, except that it retains the behavior to ensure it loops with those values set (even though they're just overwritten right at the top of the loop). Was this a safety thing you were thinking, just trying to be extra cautious?

Otherwise I figure a macro just like THETA would fit nicely in this section:

```
#define CHI(j) { \
          bc[0] = st[j    ]; \
          bc[1] = st[j + 1]; \
          st[j    ] ^= (~st[j + 1]) & st[j + 2]; \
          st[j + 1] ^= (~st[j + 2]) & st[j + 3]; \
          st[j + 2] ^= (~st[j + 3]) & st[j + 4]; \
          st[j + 3] ^= (~st[j + 4]) & bc[0]; \
          st[j + 4] ^= (~bc[0]) & bc[1]; \
        }

        CHI( 0);
        CHI( 5);
        CHI(10);
        CHI(15);
        CHI(20);
```




## UkoeHB | 2022-04-19T23:45:35+00:00
I think in practice the compiler can optimize this for simple types. However, I do agree it should be pre-increment as a matter of code cleanliness.

## iamamyth | 2022-04-20T00:09:15+00:00
>  I think in practice the compiler can optimize this for simple types

It most definitely does, and has, for a very, very long time. That said, it's not as though the change makes the code less readable, and, when optimizing code, it can help to write the expressions as close to the desired operations as possible.

# Action History
- Created by: SChernykh | 2022-04-16T10:05:59+00:00
- Merged at: 2022-05-10T21:47:23+00:00
