---
title: add functions to wallet API
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9464
author: SNeedlewoods
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- feature
- wallet
created_at: '2024-08-30T07:54:45+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-04-20T16:54:13+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Edit: Should be ready to review now.
___________________________________________

~~Do not merge, this is still in development and just PRd for easier discussion.~~

This is an attempt to make the wallet API "feature complete" and it's part of [this proposal](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/9308).

The approach was to search for every `wallet2` function in `simplewallet` and `wallet_rpc_server`, if it is used in either of those, but is not implemented in the API I considered it missing and it was added in this PR.
I believe `wallet2_api.h` now contains all missing functions, but some are not implemented yet. I'm waiting on feedback on those, if you want to have a look, things I need help with are marked as `QUESTION`, you can also comment on things marked `TODO` (those may become QUESTIONs if I'm unable(/unsure how) to solve them) or anything else.

Also gathered [this collection](https://github.com/SNeedlewoods/seraphis_wallet/issues/1) of (mostly minor) issues found during API work.

# Discussion History
## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-01T08:45:49+00:00
Looks like "non-essential" to me, a single loop over all enotes should be able to easily pick the right ones to freeze (and thaw of course), thus "No, don't add"

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-01T08:47:41+00:00
I would vote "no", again with the argument of not "essential"

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-01T08:49:08+00:00
Can you give some possible arguments for pushing this down to the account level (if I understand you correctly)? I don't see any right now, but you have probably give this much more thought than I :)

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-01T08:52:51+00:00
What would you think about an attempt to get rid of this and similar very, very rarely used and "exotic" (but still needed) methods by introducing a call like `getWalletState` or similar that gives back a struct with a number of such info points?

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-01T08:54:42+00:00
Is this "essential", or is a client only a loop away of summing such things itself by using some call that returns subaddresses and info about them?

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-01T08:56:42+00:00
Here we probably enter a whole region of things that we won't need in this form if my proposal to make a single encompassing "get payments / transactions" methods really flies.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-01T08:59:45+00:00
As a terminology question, at first sight I am not sure what to make of the term *dumping* that gets used here. Maybe it's established in the codebase, don't have an overview right now. I ask myself why not simply use *convert*, and use it for all possible cases where some info just changes form.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-01T09:16:56+00:00
Maybe we could put up this issue for a separate discussion, but to me it seems that nobody at all uses any of that "blackballing" stuff anymore, and we could just drop everything connected with it. Maybe it even became victim of "rot", i.e. if you tried to actually use you would find out that it did not care for some changes that happened since it was introduced and does not fully work anymore.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-01T09:24:17+00:00
Hmm, interesting question, but I think it would really help to see some good examples / candidates before really discussing this.

In my experience devs rarely really forget to check error status. What often happens instead is that they simply judge an error to be very, very unlikely and opt for neglecting to test. And if a dev does not "feel like testing", you can design your call whatever way you want, they will find a way to just throw away any result or just use something that you give back without testing it first for null, boost::none or whatever.

IMHO if it's clear that you do give back a result from the design of a method the design job is mostly already done.

## tobtoht | 2024-09-01T09:50:10+00:00
This function is unrelated to blackballing, see: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/commit/5f146873c58f39632e26c5edbf2f618cacbd76a5. It should probably not be exposed in the API as it can leak all wallet txids to the daemon. Fork re-use mitigation might be obsolete with FCMP++, so perhaps it can considered for removal, too? For discussion on removing blackballing, see #8758.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-01T16:04:35+00:00
Sounds like a great idea to me.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-01T16:04:41+00:00
On first sight it seems the API already can give you the total balance and unlocked balance:
1. from [SubaddressAccountRow](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/api/wallet2_api.h#L310-L311)
2. from [Wallet](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/api/wallet2_api.h#L616-L629), this can give you both the total and per account balance.
But I don't see anything for per subaddress balance.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-01T16:04:46+00:00
It's not established afaik, just chose it to differentiate between the two different types of `wallet2::save_multisig_tx()`, one just returns the encrypted hex string (that's what I called "dump") and the other one actually saves the hex string. I'm fine with changing it to "convert".

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-01T16:04:52+00:00
Oh thanks for pointing that out, I wasn't aware.
Will remove it then.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-01T16:05:03+00:00
Good point, if I don't stumble upon anything more specific in near future I'll drop this.

To every function that potentially changes the status I added the comment (as you can see above) `* note: sets status error on fail`, hope that's clear enough.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-02T09:37:08+00:00
Correction: not established in the API, but in wallet2 we have `dump_tx_to_str` which is the equivalent function for the multisig `save_multisig_tx` which returns a string as mentioned above.
Still fine to go with _convert_ here instead of _dump_ imo.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T12:30:13+00:00
Can go. We don't have the possibility to choose ringsize anymore for years, and well, soon we won't have any rings at all. Maximum that I see here is an info "ring size" in the new `WalletState`.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T12:34:03+00:00
Can go. See comment at `getMinRingSize`

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T12:59:33+00:00
If we get a method to get a list of all enotes and complete info about them, this method is not "essential", it's trivial to search through the enotes in the wallet app to see whether there are any such unknown key images.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T13:01:25+00:00
I propose a general naming rule: Whenever it makes sense, the name of a method tells what it is working on. With this rule, this name `rewrite` is not complete, it does not tell that it works on a wallet / wallet file.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T13:06:20+00:00
Is this method lacking a parameter, the transfer in question?

Anyway, maybe a candidate to go because itt may be very simple to check yourself whether a transfer is unlocked or not yet, if the info given back about enotes is complete and contains the unlock height.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T13:08:58+00:00
I am not sure yet what possibilities of "pool info update" the Wallet API has to offer, or should offer, but I am pretty sure that this method in this form is on too low a level of abstraction, like the following `processPoolState` as well.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T13:21:22+00:00
I wonder whether it would make sense to group all the multisig related methods together in the source, and not e.g. put non-multisig and multisig versions of methods that do similar things together. Thus, "write normal tx to file" and "write multisig transaction to file" would not be next to each other, but the first in the group of "normal" methods and the second in the multisig method group.

My argument: Many wallet apps will probably continue to not offer multisig, and their devs may welcome that all those multisig methods do not "clutter" the API for them.

There also have been thoughts that ideally, "multisig wallet" would be a completely separate wallet type, with its own API, and maybe even with the code in a separate repository. That multisig stuff is so highly special, so different, and so complicated ...

I also ask myself wether we can't make some of such methods "smart" anyway so they decide themselves what there is to do, based on internal knowledge whether a transaction is multisig or not.

## tobtoht | 2024-09-06T13:24:24+00:00
Would require something like this: https://github.com/tobtoht/monero/commit/894adf09e7b87f9035562255d2a4c1198e338d4b. Can PR.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T13:24:44+00:00
Is any info about the currently active daemon, the daemon the wallet is connected to, a candidate for `WalletState`?

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T13:27:14+00:00
IMHO using the term *cache* here is overly technical: Seems to me you simply set the *wallet description* with this.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T14:10:45+00:00
Seems to me, if we "go with the pattern", we have a method somewhere that gives back all existing accounts with info, using an `account_info` struct. The tag would be part of that struct, and thus this call here not needed because not "essential".

Or maybe a call giving back all subaddresses, with info about them, and info how they group into accounts - and any tags of course.

Methods like the following `setAccountTag` stay of course even if we use this pattern whenever we can, because changing things is something fundamentally different and altogether impossible if there is no method, after all.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T14:11:55+00:00
Another candidate for inclusion in `WalletState`?

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T14:28:55+00:00
As far as I could see in the code of the CLI wallet that uses this method it's only there to support that super-special case where you could lock a transaction not by giving a blockheight, but a time span, e.g. "10 years". Something nobody ever did in earnest. We anyway removed already all CLI commands to lock. 

I am pretty sure we don't need this.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-06T14:31:12+00:00
Maybe we should have a list somewhere of public `wallet2` methods that do not get a counterpart in the Wallet API, with a short reason per method? Otherwise people in the future may wonder, or worse still, assume an oversight, and get tempted to add it ...

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-07T17:41:53+00:00
Quick update:
There is no need to move `createOneOffSubaddress` to the account level. Since this is an exotic function, maybe we should add a note/warning that this function should only be used in special cases?
(moneromoo: "It was intended to help people who generated a subaddress far into the random index values.")
e.g. something like:
```
* brief: createOneOffSubaddress - Create a new account or subaddress for given index, without adding it to known accounts and subaddresses.
*                                 Use `SubaddressAccount::addRow()` or `Subaddress::addRow()` instead, to make sure the wallet adds accounts/subaddresses consecutively and keeps track of accounts and subaddresses.
```

`WalletImpl::addSubaddress` & `WalletImpl::addSubaddressAccount` also do not refresh the known accounts/subaddresses, if that's not for a good reason (that I don't see) I would either add refresh at the end of those functions, or at least give the same warning as proposed above.
Seems the GUI only uses the `addRow` functions (see [here](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Amonero-project/monero-gui%20addRow&type=code)) not the `addSubaddress*` ones (see [here](https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Amonero-project/monero-gui%20addSubaddress&type=code)).

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-07T17:42:14+00:00
Actually since `wallet2::balance_per_subaddress()` (found [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L6996)) loops over `m_transfers`, `m_unconfirmed_txs` (if not `strict`) and `m_unconfirmed_payments` and `wallet2::unlocked_balance_per_subaddress()` just loops over `m_transfers`, I think a client should be able to do this on their own, once we figured out how to replace those wallet2 members with `EnoteDetails` and `TransferInfo` in the API.
Similar to how simplewallet uses `wallet2::get_transfers()` to get per subaddress balance [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L8885-L8906).

But I'm thinking subaddress balance is the "lowest level" of summed balances and it would be easier if we provide that feature for clients, so they could implement account balance as the sum of the accounts subaddress balances and total wallet balance as the sum of account balances. On the other hand, as mentioned, we already have account balance and total balance in the API and removing those would not make sense either, so probably I'm just rambling. More opinions are welcome. Should we add per subaddress balance or not?

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-07T17:53:34+00:00
It's the equivalent to [this](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L7268), which is used by wallet-RPC and -CLI.

But I agree on the second part.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-07T17:55:14+00:00
In regards to grouping multisig stuff together, that's already done in another [PR](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9368) (can be seen e.g. [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/c5ed7f8fbc3a4b64a13d9b64746555f4c81772dd/src/wallet/api/wallet2_api.h#L1006-L1068) or [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/c5ed7f8fbc3a4b64a13d9b64746555f4c81772dd/src/wallet/api/wallet.h#L212-L222)). If I remember correctly for this PR I was asked to add everything new in one place, if the "organize functions" get merged this can get based onto that (actually there is still another one for in between in the pipeline I didn't PR yet, the "add comments" found [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/compare/master...SNeedlewoods:seraphis_wallet:x_api_comments)).

A separate multisig wallet really sounds ideal, not sure how many clients currently use the multisig functionality from the API, the GUI afaik doesn't. But that's out of scope for now I'd say!?

I'll look into if I can come up with such "smart" methods.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-07T18:19:40+00:00
Actually, since we want to keep things minimal and we already have `setCacheAttribute` ([here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/api/wallet2_api.h#L1013)) and `wallet2::set_description` (the function that was intended to get replaced by `setCacheDescription`) just calls `wallet2::set_attribute(ATTRIBUTE_DESCRIPTION, description)` I think we can remove this and the get function below.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-09T17:07:21+00:00
I missed we already have a `synchronized` method [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/api/wallet.cpp#L1061-L1064) which just returns `m_synchronized` which gets set in `WalletImpl::doRefresh()` [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/api/wallet.cpp#L2430).
So I just remove it and don't add it to the `WalletState`.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-09T17:09:42+00:00
A list like the following? Just needs a better place then in the comments of this PR. So far we have:

# List of public `wallet2` methods that do not get a counterpart in the wallet API

|wallet2 method|source|reason|
|-|-|-|
|```bool unset_ring(const std::vector<crypto::key_image> &key_images)```|[source](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L8840)||
|`bool unset_ring(const crypto::hash &txid)`|[source](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L8849)||
|`bool find_and_save_rings(bool force = true)`|[source](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L8875)||
|`bool is_output_blackballed(const std::pair<uint64_t, uint64_t> &output) const`|[source](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L8970)||
|`bool is_transfer_unlocked(uint64_t unlock_time, uint64_t block_height)`|[source](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L7268)||
|`uint64_t get_min_ring_size()`|[source](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L8589)|Rings will become deprecated soon with [FCMPs](https://github.com/kayabaNerve/fcmp-ringct/blob/develop/fcmp%2B%2B.pdf).|
|`uint64_t adjust_mixin(uint64_t mixin)`|[source](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L8613)|Rings will become deprecated soon with [FCMPs](https://github.com/kayabaNerve/fcmp-ringct/blob/develop/fcmp%2B%2B.pdf).|
|`bool is_deprecated() const`|[source](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L1961)|This information is now part of `WalletState`.|
|`std::string get_daemon_address() const`|[source](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L12898)|This information is now part of `WalletState`.|

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-09T17:14:29+00:00
Yes!

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-13T12:36:08+00:00
Not sure what you mean with "overlap". I think you have to be very careful to not become victim of the confusion in `wallet2` regarding the term *transfer*. If only people would not use terminology confusingly and inconsistently, things could be much easier :)

If you look at the big picture, we have *enotes* and we have *transactions*, and these two are two clearly distinct and different things. They are as different as ships and containers. A ship transports containers, that's it already. And a transaction has some enotes as inputs and some other enotes as outputs. Really simple.

Nobody in their right mind would ever confuse ships and containers, that's why everytime I look at some definition in `wallet2.h`, or check a command in the CLI wallet, and it's not *immediately* clear whether I am looking at ships (transactions) or at containers (enotes), I ask myself, am I really so dumb, or are these definitions and command names simply not as clear as they should, and could, be?

Anyway, enough ranting, back to the questions at hand: Because enotes and transactions are different things, there are different infos to be had about those two. Any "overlap" would immediately rise my suspicion of a confusion somewhere.

Of course you can cross-reference things, and we should pass on such cross-references whenever `wallet2` provides them: A) at a transaction, enotes that were the inputs of it, B) at a transaction, enotes that where the outputs of it, C) at an enote, the transaction it arrived with, D) at an enote, if spent, the transaction that it was spent with.

From some earlier investigation I am moderately sure that info of type D) is not available because `wallet2` does not store it anywhere. Maybe it would be a good exercise for you to get a clearer overview to confirm (or refute) that.


## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-16T15:39:35+00:00
Removed balance per subaddress.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-16T15:40:06+00:00
This is too complex for me right now to fully dive into, maybe someone with more experience in this area can comment?

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-16T15:40:38+00:00
rbrunner and I already had a chat about this, but for completeness I post my conclusion here.

With _overlap_ I meant what we currently have with "tx_id". To stay with the analogy:
The "tx_id" is an unique identifier for each _ship_ (e.g. `crypto::hash m_tx_hash;` in `payment_details`, for ships that deliver containers into our wallet) and we store this identifier alongside each _container_ that we received (as `crypto::hash m_txid;` for `transfer_details`). So it's possible to receive multiple containers from the same ship and you can later check which ship delivered which containers and the other way around, looking at the containers, which container got delivered by which ship.


AFAIUI this is the current state of A)-C) (I'm still struggling with `cryptonote::transaction_prefix` and [all the things that come along](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/cryptonote_basic/cryptonote_basic.h#L61-L202), so this part may be the most wrong.)

|Scenario|Type|Struct|Cross-Reference|
|-|-|-|-|
|A)|outgoing transaction|`confirmed_transfer_details` & `unconfirmed_transfer_details`|`key_offsets` and `k_image` in `std::vector<txin_v> vin;` in `cryptonote::transaction_prefix m_tx;` if the variant `txin_v` is a `txin_to_key`|
|B)|incoming transaction|`payment_details`|`m_tx_hash` (loop over `wallet2::m_transfers` and compare txids)|
|C)|-|`transfer_details`|`m_txid`|

I came to the following result for scenario D):
TLDR: It's not easily possible.
Long story: It seems the necessary information is very close to be available in three out of four cases:
`m_spent` only gets set [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L1966)
`set_spent()` only gets called from 4 different places ([here 1](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L2675), [here2](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L7231), [here 3](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L7585), [here 4](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L13633)) which all have access to the tx_id (except #2 `wallet2::rescan_spent()`), so it's not as easy as just adding `tx_id_out` to the function parameter of `set_spent()` and `m_tx_id_out` to `transfer_details`.


Slightly offtopic, but I assume the `k_image` in `txin_to_key` is the reason for [this](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/wallet/wallet2.h#L351) 10 year old TODO?
Also AFAIUI in `confirmed_transfer_details` & `unconfirmed_transfer_details` we also store the key image twice, in `m_tx.vin[i]` and `m_rings[i].first`.
And in `confirmed_transfer_details` we store the unlock time in `m_tx.unlock_time` and `m_unlock_time`.


After further investigation into `cryptonote::transaction_prefix` it looks like `tx*_to_script` and `tx*_to_scripthash` are not actually used anywhere.
In conclusion so far I tend towards structuring it the following way:
|`transaction_prefix` members|`TransactionInfo` replacements|
|-|-|
|`size_t version;`|`std::size_t m_tx_version` (new)|
|`uint64_t unlock_time;`|`uint64_t m_unlock_time;`|
|`std::vector<txin_v> vin;`|see table below for "`txin_v` variant"|
|`std::vector<tx_out> vout;`|see table below for "`txout_target_v` variant"|
|`vout[i].amount`|`std::vector<Transfer> m_transfers;` `m_transfers[i].amount`|
|`std::vector<uint8_t> extra;`|QUESTION : Do we really need tx_extra in TransactionInfo? If yes, I'd add: `std::string m_tx_extra;` (new)|

|`txin_v` variant|variant members|`TransactionInfo` replacements|`EnoteDetails` replacements|
|-|-|-|-|
|`txin_gen` (coinbase)|`size_t height;`|`uint64_t m_blockheight`|-|
|`txin_to_key`|`uint64_t amount;`|`uint64_t m_amount`*¹|`std::uint64_t m_amount`|
|-|`std::vector<uint64_t> key_offsets;`|-|QUESTION : Couldn't find a good reason why we would need this in `EnoteDetails`, any other opinion?|
|-|`crypto::key_image k_image;`|-|`std::string m_key_image`|

*¹ Actually this is the sum of all ammounts in the vector `vin`.

|`txout_target_v` variant|variant members|`TransactionInfo` replacements|`EnoteDetails` replacements|
|- |-|-|-|
|`txout_to_key` (before `HF_VERSION_VIEW_TAGS`)|`crypto::public_key key;`|-|`std::string m_onetime_address`|
|`txout_to_tagged_key` (after `HF_VERSION_VIEW_TAGS`)|`crypto::public_key key;`|-|`std::string m_onetime_address`|
|-|`crypto::view_tag view_tag;`|-|`std::string m_view_tag`|

Is it correct that `key` in `txout_to_key` and `txout_to_tagged_key` is an output onetime address?

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-22T08:38:20+00:00
I vote for an enum, with now two values *cn* and *rct* to replace the boolean, and probably soon *fcmp* as a third value.

Over the years I developed a habit of quickly checking almost every boolean I see in an API how probable it seems to run into a problem with it after some expansions in the future.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-22T08:41:47+00:00
I tend to think let's take it in. Probably strictly seen it's redundant, but on the other hand may make a difference when you output lists of enotes in a tool like the CLI wallet, whether you can straight-out just take all the info you need from the returned list, other whether you have to gather and join info first.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-22T09:04:55+00:00
I see this as a typical case for an enum. Easier to process and more logical than 4 booleans that don't tell you at first glance that only exactly one has to be set for things to be consistent.

`TxState` sounds good to me if we don't have something with a stronger "claim" to this name.

How about letting the two existing booleans stand but declaring them as "legacy" and giving the enum as replacement in the comments?

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-22T09:07:39+00:00
Shouldn't we use here the same enum we have at the transaction, soon with 3 values?

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-22T16:23:57+00:00
I think that _tags_ would fit into `SubaddressAccountRow`, but returning the "i-th account's tag" is just one part of this function, it also returns all tag descriptions (used by [wallet-cli](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L9360-L9374) and [wallet-rpc](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet_rpc_server.cpp#L767-L785)). So we probably need at least a `getAccountTagDescriptions()` method anyways, or alternatively we could store the tag description in `SubaddressAccountRow`, too.

## jeffro256 | 2024-09-23T18:55:56+00:00
I try to follow the general principle of YAGNI, especially when making APIs. Don't add it unless someone asks for it. A use case for processing abstractions of the pool state might pop up in the future at some point, but it also might not. Until then, these functions are internal business logic and shouldn't be exposed to the API. 

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-23T19:06:05+00:00
If we don't add them to the API, how would the [wallet-rpc](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet_rpc_server.cpp#L2855) & [wallet-cli](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/simplewallet/simplewallet.cpp#L8586) call this function, if the goal is to get rid of all the wallet2 function calls? Sorry if I'm missing something.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-27T14:01:00+00:00
Tricky naming conflict that we have here. We would like to switch from *output* to *enote* as term, and with that the method would get a name of `exportEnotesToStr`, yet the method `exportOutputs` exists, should probably continue to exist under that name, and sets a precedent of course.

Just now, in the mood that I am right now, I would probably choose `exportEnotesToStr`. If we are not a little bit aggressive in our switch to *enote* it will probably fail from pure inertia ...

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-27T14:01:54+00:00
Anyway, I think if the name stays at least the description should use already *enote* as term.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-27T14:04:46+00:00
Difficult question. I would tend to keep the "style" of using getters, to have things consistent, even if we probably agree that the whole programming pattern is overkill.

Maybe something to bring up in the next meeting?

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-27T14:08:06+00:00
I would vote for removing. That whole `tx_extra` mechanism is very controversial, problematic privacy-wise, and we once were on the verge of deleting it altogether. We sure don't want to give people ideas to use it.

Where did you check for use?

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-27T14:10:24+00:00
Little detail: I think these things are usually merely called *seed*, not *seed phrase*.

Anyway, I don't know whether you ever had a look at such a multisig seed: It's not words, but a long hex (or base58?) string.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-27T14:12:00+00:00
I don't understand the question. Can you please elaborate?

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-27T14:19:40+00:00
I checked, and it's used indeed, so it's not a case of YAGNI like @jeffro256 suspected, and after I saw that @moneromooo-monero fixed an information leak a few years back when using remote daemons where somehow this method and the next for processing the pool state were involved, I think it's best to just add those to the interface and keep them "public".

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-27T18:21:25+00:00
I thought this was some other sort of "extra" apart from `tx_extra`. Why would you store `tx_extra` inside  `SubaddressAccountRow`?

> Where did you check for use?

Did the following grep searches:
```grep -r "\->extra" src/```
```grep -r "\.extra" src/```
Then looked through the noise and can say with relatively high certainty that none of the results involved the `SubaddressAccountRow` `extra`. Also just did a quick search in github for the GUI for the same strings and found nothing, but I did not check if it's used by any third party.

Anyways, I'd still vote "remove".

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-27T18:32:42+00:00
Oh, of course, my bad, nothing to do with `tx_extra`.

It was introduced 8 years ago with the initial subaddresses PR. I am pretty sure that it's not only unused by any client, it's never set!

So, yes, I agree with remove.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-27T18:33:18+00:00
Interesting, didn't know that the multisig doesn't use words.
Copied the name from [wallet2](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/master/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L1451), but the description was made up.
I'm open for suggestions for both the name and the description.

## rbrunner7 | 2024-09-27T18:36:41+00:00
For me it's ok to still call this "seed" although it's not words. Simply another type of seed where you can grow a multisig wallet from. I would just drop "phrase" and go with "seed" alone in any descriptions and comments about this.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-09-27T19:02:37+00:00
Sure.
The current behavior of this function in wallet2 ([src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L6201)) aiui:
We provide a parameter `wallet_name` and  an outparam `new_keys_file_name`.
The first call is to `prepare_file_names(wallet_name);`, which then calls `do_prepare_file_names(wallet_name, m_keys_file, m_wallet_file, m_mms_file)`. Inside `do_prepare_file_names()` lays the problem, it changes the `m_wallet_file` of the current wallet to the new `wallet_name`.

Before going into more detail (I can give more if desired):
As I typed this I just took another look into where this `write_watch_only_wallet()` is actually used and saw it's only one place in simplewallet, where it uses `m_wallet_file` as the `wallet_name`. So even though the current behavior aiui is a mess, it's probably unimportant, and can be circumvented by removing the `wallet_name` as parameter from the API function and make it always use the current `m_wallet_file` internally. Ideally `new_keys_file_name` should not be an outparam, if you want to write a new watch only wallet with a different name than `m_wallet_file + "-watchonly.keys"`.

Let me know if things are still unclear.

## jeffro256 | 2024-10-30T16:24:03+00:00
We shouldn't include these headers in the wallet API head since this API should "stand on its own". Notice that the only other headers included above are standard C++.

## jeffro256 | 2024-10-30T16:44:46+00:00
I think that the function `update_pool_state`, with `process_pool_state` are both leaky abstractions as written. Both times they are used outside of `wallet2`, they are called like so:

```
std::vector<std::tuple<cryptonote::transaction, crypto::hash, bool>> process_txs;
m_wallet->update_pool_state(process_txs);
if (!process_txs.empty())
  m_wallet->process_pool_state(process_txs);
```

This sequence of statements basically means "rescan the pool" and IMO should be abstracted into a method as such. Calling `update_pool_state` without an immediate corresponding call to `process_pool_state` will almost always be a mistake, as this will update the fetching marker without actually scanning the transactions and getting up-to-date information about your balance. So I'd add a method to the `Wallet` interface called something like `refreshPoolOnly` which calls the above statements, and drop both `updatePoolState` and `processPoolState` from the interface. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-10-30T17:23:08+00:00
Should be `std::unique_ptr` instead of `std::shared_ptr`. We also need to include `<memory>` since we're using classes from that header now. 

## tobtoht | 2024-12-09T19:46:11+00:00
Keep in mind that key images are not always available (e.g. in view-only wallets). Referencing enotes by pubkey works consistently.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T13:09:47+00:00
You could already switch to 2025 here :)

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T13:12:26+00:00
I think we leave this note only in files that existed already in the original Cryptonote codebase, which of course is not the case with your new file here.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T13:23:17+00:00
If you follow the rule applied elsewhere, which looks like "Prepend the name of the enum type plus underscore to the individual enum identifiers", this wouldn't be `Tx_Protocol_CryptoNote`, but `TxProtocol_CryptoNote` without an additional underscore. Also see examples like `ConnectionStatus_Disconnected` and `BackgroundSync_Off` for the rule in action.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T13:24:49+00:00
Following other enums, this would be `TxState_Pending`, not merely `pending`.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T13:40:20+00:00
Comment needs update if you do rename the enum identifiers. Or you avoid the problem in the first place by writing only "CryptoNote or RingCT" ...

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T13:51:06+00:00
You could probably leave out `Tx` and go for simply `convertToStr` because after all we are already in the class for the pending transaction.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T14:08:24+00:00
Simply `sign` would probably do, as signing as something else is nowhere in sight, but given that the wallet2 method is even worse with `sign_tx_dump_to_str`, it probably does not really matter :)

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T14:52:24+00:00
The already existing method `loadUnsignedTx`also has "transactions" here, plural, but that's a bit misleading, as it's only about a single transaction, right?

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T15:02:56+00:00
Just a comment, maybe for future things that we define: We have now a quite unfortunate mix between methods that end with `FromString` and methods that merely end with abbreviated `FromStr`, with no clear winner in sight regarding number of cases, so no good idea how to call new methods like this one.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T15:04:10+00:00
That should probably be "importing", not "exporting".

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T15:07:54+00:00
What is the background story behind deleting this line?

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T16:11:03+00:00
I wonder whether we should directly get the enotes from the wallet, like it happens in `getEnoteDetails`, and search through those, with:

    m_wallet->get_transfers(tc);

It takes quite some effort to convert from "wallet2 style info" to "Wallet API style info" with `getEnoteDetails`, but most of the info is not needed anyway here to find by key image.

Or maybe not, with the argument "no premature optimization" ...

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T16:18:00+00:00
Simply `state` instead of `txState` would also be possible.

## rbrunner7 | 2025-01-31T16:23:43+00:00
Typo: "qunatity"

## SNeedlewoods | 2025-02-01T09:18:38+00:00
I included the `Tx` to help distinguish between the `convertToStr()` in `easylogging++.h`.
Not super useful in this case, but as a general example, if you grep "init(" you get 700 results. If we had names like `initTx()`, `initWallet()` etc. it makes searching easier.

## SNeedlewoods | 2025-02-01T09:18:50+00:00
We already have a simple `sign()` method
https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/90359e31fd657251cb357ecba02c4de2442d1b5c/src/wallet/api/unsigned_transaction.cpp#L71
which surprisingly doesn't return a string, but actually does "signToFile".

## SNeedlewoods | 2025-02-01T09:20:10+00:00
I think it's a bit ambiguous an `UnsignedTransansaction` has member `tools::wallet2::unsigned_tx_set`, similar `PendingTransaction` has member `std::vector<tools::wallet2::pending_tx>`, so singular / plural terminology is mixed.

## SNeedlewoods | 2025-02-01T09:20:22+00:00
Oops, this one was copied from #9492, I usually tried to stick with `*FromStr` and `*ToStr`.

## SNeedlewoods | 2025-02-01T09:21:28+00:00
IIRC I thought it's redundant, because in `make_multisig_tx_set()` we set the tx_set that gets returned by that method to `tx_set.m_ptx = transaction->m_pending_tx`.

Not entirely certain, probably should've just left it.

## SNeedlewoods | 2025-02-01T09:21:43+00:00
This method is currently only used for the `freeze/thaw/isFrozen(key_image)` methods.
We can probably get rid of this and use `wallet2::get_transfer_details(ki)` instead, which is still inefficient to find an enote by key image, but at least we don't have to convert from wallet2 to Wallet API style.

For a more efficient approach we have freeze/thaw by pubkey, which uses this method to get an enote by pubkey:
https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a04b70be2a10926d3fd66cca8e74541724f3b6ac/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L2083-L2088
thanks to @tobtoht's recommendation

## SNeedlewoods | 2025-02-01T09:22:24+00:00
I prefer `txState` for the reason mentioned above with the `init(` example.

# Action History
- Created by: SNeedlewoods | 2024-08-30T07:54:45+00:00
