---
title: Fix ZMQ Tx Pruning
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9370
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels:
- daemon
created_at: '2024-06-18T01:13:31+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-07-28T22:36:09+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-07-16T22:56:55+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-07-16T22:56:55+00:00'
---

# Original Description
When requesting pruned txes over ZMQ, the txes aren't fully pruned. This is due to a quirk in the unpacking of txes - the pruned elements are still read into the local tx. Fixing this is a bit more involved. The ZMQ output code then has no context/flag for `prune` in the signature portion (because it assumes the signatures wouldn't have been unpacked in. a pruned tx).

This is a simple hack that passes the prune information from the base tx into the next function call. This allows for full pruning, which saves on bandwidth, output time, and read time.

I have verified locally (with LWS) that this output is still valid.

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2024-06-18T20:15:46+00:00
If you introduce locals for the actual (`rct::rctSig`) `sig` and `pruned` values, and change the name of the param here to reflect that it's now a wrapper struct, the diff would be a lot smaller, and better reflect the nature of the change, as well as the underlying procedure (there's only one `sig.sig`, and it's the heart of the procedure, so it's semantically odd to continually use indirection).

## vtnerd | 2024-06-18T23:38:26+00:00
That's true, I can move all of the signature output code into the parent function (is that you are saying)? The diff size would be the same, because I had to rename everything in the sub-function anyway.

## vtnerd | 2024-06-18T23:40:13+00:00
Oh never mind, I see what you mean. Yeah, I can call the code directly instead of using `INSERT_INTO_JSON` ?

## vtnerd | 2024-06-18T23:44:27+00:00
FWIW I partially did it this way because my new serialization routines will basically require it be done like this.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2024-06-18T01:13:31+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-07-16T22:56:55+00:00
