---
title: 'blockchain_db: allow implementor to be tx format agnostic'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9174
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels:
- enhancement
- important
- database
created_at: '2024-02-16T01:38:04+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-01-24T18:53:05+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2025-01-18T07:09:28+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Removes `cryptonote::transaction` specific things from BlockchainLMDB. This refactor should be useful during the Seraphis migration, as the transaction format/types may change. All the low-level LMDB code theoretically doesn't need to know details about the actual transaction type/format, since it's simply storing blobs, hashes, and other provided properties in fixed-size structs. If not used during the Seraphis migration, this change will otherwise just make the separation between the public interface and implementing interface cleaner. This commit shouldn't change any observable behavior about the database.

# Discussion History
## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-02-24T16:28:58+00:00
apologies for nitpicking. fix the indentation here to have a consistent indentation with other `throw1`s.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-02-24T16:36:05+00:00
Question, what do you think about keeping `parse_and_validate_tx_base_from_blob`  in `#ifdef DEBUG` preprocessor? Although we don't use debug macro in `db_lmdb.cpp`. 

I realize that you want to remove transaction-specific code from db_lmdb,  but at the same time, it looks like a valuable check, particularly when debugging. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-24T20:06:05+00:00
Check the other `BlockchainDB::for_all_transactions` method. We do still have the `for_all_transactions()` method, but now the parsing is done outside of this class. 

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2024-02-16T01:38:04+00:00
- Closed at: 2025-01-18T07:09:28+00:00
