---
title: 'Dockerfile: remove CMD line and docker-compose file provided'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9391
author: mjhatami
assignees: []
labels:
- low priority
created_at: '2024-07-03T18:58:44+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-07-04T07:06:28+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
# Improved Containerization with Docker Compose

## Summary
This pull request updates the containerization approach for the repository by changing the Dockerfile and adding a docker-compose.yml file. This change aims to improve build times and provide greater flexibility when adjusting command-line arguments, enhancing the development workflow.

## Changes Made

### 1. Dockerfile Update:

 - Removed the CMD instruction from the Dockerfile.

### 2. Introduction of Docker Compose:

 - Added a docker-compose.yml file to facilitate easier management and configuration of the container.
 - The command previously specified in the Dockerfile's CMD is now included in the command section of the Docker Compose file.
 - This allows for quicker adjustments to command-line arguments without needing to rebuild the Docker image, streamlining the development process.

## Benefits

 - Faster Development: By removing the CMD line from the Dockerfile and leveraging Docker Compose, developers can adjust the command-line arguments without rebuilding the entire image, saving significant time during the development cycle.
 - Enhanced Flexibility: The new setup allows for easy addition or removal of command-line arguments through the docker-compose.yml file, providing a more flexible and convenient approach to configuration changes.

Please review the changes and let me know if any further adjustments are needed. Thank you for considering this improvement to the project's containerization process.

# Discussion History
## selsta | 2024-07-03T21:32:48+00:00
Why `--rpc-ssl=disabled`? Also `--log-level=4` is too high, it will cause performance issues due to massive amount of logs written.

## mjhatami | 2024-07-04T06:19:19+00:00
It's just a template for development and everyone could modify them by their needs. I think Server-side services communicate under the Docker network by service name in most cases and SSL isn't required between them.
However, it seems it's better to change them let me remove these and add some comments from "monerod --help" to it.

# Action History
- Created by: mjhatami | 2024-07-03T18:58:44+00:00
