---
title: 'serialization: remove container wrappers and serialize directly'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9077
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels:
- enhancement
created_at: '2023-11-28T01:42:43+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-01-19T19:25:47+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-01-18T23:02:59+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-01-18T23:02:59+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Some downstream code (most notably PR https://github.com/UkoeHB/monero/pull/25) wants to use the src/serialization lib
for storing information persistently. When one builds classes/machines wishing to serialize containers, they must use
the `serializable_*` container classes. In this case, this makes the Seraphis library code unnecessarily tightly coupled
with the src/serialization code since one cannot swap out their type of storage format without major refactoring of class
field types. By serializing STL containers directly, we can abstract the serialization details away, making for much
cleaner design. Also small bonus side effect of this change is that STL containers with custom Comparators, Allocators,
and Hashers are serializable.

Depends upon https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9069.

# Discussion History
## DangerousFreedom1984 | 2023-11-28T17:10:22+00:00
Also add std::multimap ?

## jeffro256 | 2023-11-28T18:40:47+00:00
Added. No new header was needed so it won't affect compile time either 

## vtnerd | 2023-11-28T19:24:53+00:00
These `public`s aren't needed with `struct`. I point this out because this out only because this is word wrapping on my display now.

## vtnerd | 2023-11-28T19:29:00+00:00
I commented on this on another review, and you rebuked, but I'll try again!

Why not just make these pass-through? `emplace_back()` returns void anyway, and its not terribly to forward the return-call (if there is one).

## vtnerd | 2023-11-28T19:37:02+00:00
You can make the first function a template pack and then auto-return type reserve:
```c++
template<typename... C>
void do_reserve(const C&...) {}

template<typename C>
auto do_reserve(C& c, std::size_t N) -> decltype(c.reserve(N)) { return c.reserve(N); }
```
which gets all containers with a reserve function.

## vtnerd | 2023-11-28T19:42:34+00:00
I don't see why this needs to be cast, could you just pass `*i` to `serialize_container_element`? I suppose there are situations where `value_type`/`mapped_type` are not the same as `decltype(*i)`?

## jeffro256 | 2023-11-28T19:52:59+00:00
I guess I don't care as much about the return type of these functions since they don't need to be chained together like `do_serialize()`. It would make it less verbose anyways, so I think this way is better. FWIW, `emplace_back()` only returns `void` before C++17 and `emplace()` returns `std::pair<iterator, bool>`.

## jeffro256 | 2023-11-28T19:55:06+00:00
I like this! I was trying to find a not-horribly-verbose way to say this without mentioning any specific container

## jeffro256 | 2023-11-28T19:59:22+00:00
We can't serialize `const` types without a lot of refactoring. The value type of mapped containers is `std::pair<const K, V>`, so when we try to serialize that value type, the pair serialization code tries to serialize `const K`, and the compiler can't find any functions that match `do_serialize(Archive&, const K&)` (since they don't exist) so it throws an error.

## vtnerd | 2023-11-29T14:57:41+00:00
That's too bad.

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2023-11-28T01:42:43+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-01-18T23:02:59+00:00
