---
title: Add ARMv8 handling to CMakeLists.txt
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/966
author: ghost
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2016-08-16T21:40:58+00:00'
updated_at: '2016-08-28T10:41:37+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2016-08-28T10:25:41+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Adds 64-bit ARMv8 handling to CMakeLists.txt and implements GCC flags for two errata on the Cortex-A53 present on every chip in revision 0:

https://developer.arm.com/docs/epm048406/latest/arm-processor-cortex-a53-mpcore-product-revision-r0-software-developers-errata-notice

835769 affects 64-bit multiply accumulate

843419 affects internal page addressing


# Discussion History
## radfish | 2016-08-21T01:24:02+00:00
This logic is wrong: NO_AES=ON should not enable AES. AES should not be enabled in any but the first clause of this if.


## radfish | 2016-08-21T01:27:27+00:00
Please separate -f\* into a separate if statement, separete from the if statement that sets -mfpu


## radfish | 2016-08-21T01:28:54+00:00
Please factor -mfloat-abi=hard out of the ARM6 and ARM7 if statements into one if statement that applies to all of ARM, since we set them for all (keeping the conditional check that you added above.


## radfish | 2016-08-21T01:29:59+00:00
Please remove all -mtune setting code (see my comment in the comment section of this PR).


## radfish | 2016-08-21T01:32:12+00:00
Please try doing this differently, remove execute_process stuff: unconditionally call CHECK_CXX_ACCEPTS_FLAG with the two errata flags for all ARM variants.


## radfish | 2016-08-25T02:38:46+00:00
I assume the decision to special-case Windows32 and ARM to -O2 and let further optimizations on others was conservatism because it should work with -Ofast. Ideally, there would be no special-case, and all would be built with -Ofast. If unit tests pass and node works on ARM8 with -Ofast, then agreed on pulling at least ARM8 out of the special case.


## radfish | 2016-08-25T02:40:55+00:00
Ok, makes sense to tune=native. Doesn't seem to interfere wit the hypothetical future patch to add build variant with march=native.


## deleted_user | 2016-08-25T12:40:36+00:00
Problem is I can't run the unit tests because of the gtest framework refusing to install on my system. Have opened another issue about this - all flavours of bitcoin run unit tests perfectly well on the same machine so what did they do differently? Did they use a different test framework?

I tried cloning googletest 1.7.0 from source, building as release, placing all files in the right places and still nada :(

So if someone else could run the unit tests that would be groovy...

I'm currently running a version compiled with -O2 just fine and it's been up for a few days now. I tried with -O3 and it really didn't like it. Started syncing, pulled in an 'invalid key' or something and then just hung. Currently compiling with -Ofast for testing tonight but this is my first time with Git and I didn't know it would push it to the master repo...

In summary: Odroid C2 with Amlogic S905 ARMv8 Cortex-A53
-O2 = works fine
-O3 = hangs
-Ofast = being tested tonight


# Action History
- Created by: ghost | 2016-08-16T21:40:58+00:00
- Closed at: 2016-08-28T10:25:41+00:00
