---
title: 'cryptonote_core: unrestricted rpc to respect packet size limit'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9473
author: '0xFFFC0000'
assignees: []
labels:
- daemon
created_at: '2024-09-05T20:36:30+00:00'
updated_at: '2026-04-25T02:13:41+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
When txpool is greater than 100mb, unrestricted rpc cannot connect. Restricted rpc remains functional due to batching into 100tx per call. Here, were batching into 90% of the packet size limit

# Discussion History
## j-berman | 2025-08-19T01:46:36+00:00
Looks like the endpoint should fail to return pool info if `cuml_block_data_size > (LEVIN_DEFAULT_MAX_PACKET_SIZE * 0.9)`

## j-berman | 2025-08-19T02:06:01+00:00
Is including `cumulative_txblob_size_limit` in this if statement an accident? Looks like we want all those tx infos even when `cumul_limit_size` is 0

## j-berman | 2025-08-19T02:09:33+00:00
```suggestion
      const size_t num_remaining{txids.size() - added_txs.size()};
```

To avoid underflow risk

## j-berman | 2025-08-19T02:26:31+00:00
It looks like instead you want to pass in `txids` and `max_tx_count` to `get_transactions_info`, in addition to `cumulative_txblob_size_limit`. It's possible some large txs won't get added, but we're still below both `max_tx_count` AND `cumulative_txblob_size_limit`, and still have some subsequent smaller txids that could get added

I also think this would be simpler than passing in a span here

## j-berman | 2025-08-19T02:27:20+00:00
I think this is an unnecessary stipulation and is hard to reason through its correctness imo. Suggestion: construct an unordered set of the added txids in place here, then just iterate over txids and add to remaining if not already included in the set of added txids. The marginal perf hit here seems warranted to me to guarantee expected behavior

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2025-12-19T09:47:15+00:00
That is the intended behaviour. A few lines above we do: 

```
const size_t cumulative_txblob_size_limit{cumul_limit_size > total_clawback ? cumul_limit_size - total_clawback : 0};
```

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2025-12-19T09:50:28+00:00
Thanks. Fixed it.

## j-berman | 2025-12-24T06:25:15+00:00
I think there's still a bit of an issue here

Assume `find_blockchain_supplement` above this section returns 99.99mb of cumulative data.

Then `get_pool_info` executes here and fills up the response larger than the packet size limit (it's possible for just the hashes push it over the limit).

We don't want that behavior because the connection terminates in that case.

My suggestion [before](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9473#discussion_r2283858417) was to just not return *any* pool info if `cuml_block_data_size > (LEVIN_DEFAULT_MAX_PACKET_SIZE * 0.9)` because [wallets can handle that ok](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/48ad374b0d6d6e045128729534dc2508e6999afe/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L3199-L3209). But then there would also be a question of should the response be a success response or failure response (because the wallet *did* request pool info).

Another option is to reduce the `FIND_BLOCKCHAIN_SUPPLEMENT_MAX_SIZE` maybe to something like 90mb as well (or to reduce [this `max_size` param](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/48ad374b0d6d6e045128729534dc2508e6999afe/src/cryptonote_core/blockchain.cpp#L2768) to 90mb when the caller also wants to get the pool info from `on_get_blocks`). That way we'll have confidence that `get_pool_info` can definitely execute and fill up the response before tripping the packet size limit.

I personally think only reducing that `max_size` param when the caller *also* wants the pool is a good solution here. It would require a new param to the `find_blockchain_supplement` function used in `on_get_blocks` and some logic for setting the param in `on_get_blocks`, which seems sane to me.

## j-berman | 2025-12-24T19:26:58+00:00
I see what you mean here

## j-berman | 2025-12-24T19:27:24+00:00
Assume Tx A is 100kb, Tx B is 147kb, and Tx C is 5kb.

Assume `max_tx_count` is 2.

Assume `cumulative_txblob_size_limit` is 150kb.

Then `max_full_tx_fetch_count` would be 2, and so the span of [Tx A, Tx B] would be passed into `get_transactions_info`.

`get_transactions_info` would then include Tx A and ignore Tx B in `added_txs`. It could have also included Tx C in the response though, minimizing trips the wallet needs to do. But it didn't because the span cut off Tx C.

I think it would be pretty simple to solve for this case by just passing the entire `txids` vector into `get_transactions_info` instead of the span, in addition to passing in `max_tx_count` as a param, and then iterate over all `txids` until `added_txs` is either at `max_tx_count` or adding the next tx would push it over the blob size limit.

I would accept if you argue this is unnecessary. I do think it would make the code as is marginally simpler and more optimal though.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2025-12-25T15:33:03+00:00
Fixed. Thanks

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2025-12-25T15:45:04+00:00
Fixed this here: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9473/changes/374a90ef2e5c09f043b5e3e36551e4477f5dd7a9

Thanks.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2025-12-25T15:47:29+00:00
The problem with reducing `FIND_BLOCKCHAIN_SUPPLEMENT_MAX_SIZE` is that it is a large cross-layer change with the possibility of introducing new bugs for this extreme corner case. 

So IMHO, this solution is a good trade-off.

## j-berman | 2026-03-04T20:50:09+00:00
Looks like it would make sense for the daemon to return explicit status codes that indicate if the client should retry. Doesn't seem like a great mechanism to continue shrink and retry until `request_size <= restricted_slice_size`

# Action History
- Created by: 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-09-05T20:36:30+00:00
