---
title: 'wallet2: validate fetched block height and parent hash'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9344
author: valldrac
assignees: []
labels:
- wallet
created_at: '2024-05-28T18:18:02+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-08-08T04:06:16+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-07-16T22:49:00+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-07-16T22:49:00+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This PR adds integrity checks in **wallet2** to ensure that blocks fetched from remote nodes during the refresh process align correctly with the wallet's local view of the blockchain.

It mitigates some of the risks described in the security advisory [(link)](https://www.reddit.com/r/Monero/comments/134jbdt/security_advisory_new_attack_from_malicious/) regarding the trust in remote nodes for blockchain synchronization, without needing to verify the PoW.

Currently, wallet2 allows malicious nodes to provide a forged (non-mined) block at a specific height when requested by the wallet, while providing genuine blocks thereafter. All this without triggering a blockchain split, maintaining the appearance of the real blockchain, and avoiding later detection. This is possible because wallet2 fails to verify whether each block's parent hash (field `prev_id` in the block header) matches the hash of the previous block in the chain.

With these new basic checks, any fake block injected will be detected upon connection to an honest node. This detection will trigger either a reorganization (within the `max-reorg-depth` limit) or a fatal error to prevent further compromise.

Note that any injection attack that occurred prior to this PR can only be detected by issuing a rescan of the wallet.

# Discussion History
## SChernykh | 2024-07-04T07:36:28+00:00
I understand why you moved `current_index` to where it's used the first time, but this is an unrelated change for this PR. As a result, half of the changes in this function are unnecessary.

> Patches should be self contained. A good rule of thumb is to have one patch per separate issue, feature, or logical change. Also, no other changes, such as random whitespace changes, reindentation, or fixing typos, spelling, or wording, unless user visible. Following the code style of the particular chunk of code you're modifying is encouraged. Proper squashing should be done (eg, if you're making a buggy patch, then a later patch to fix the bug, both patches should be merged).

## valldrac | 2024-07-04T09:37:00+00:00
I believe this change is necessary to prevent future issues. I had to choose between two variables, neither of which was correct for my PR needs. `is_in_bounds(start_height)` must be called before `start_height` is used, but it was accessed via `current_index`, which is mutated later in the function. This mix-up could lead to future issues.

Such a trivial change is easy to review and quick to fix in any merge conflict. Leaving it as is would be incorrect, because the current code already mixes mutable and immutable variables. Probably reviewing the commit history would show that this mix-up comes from previous merges that made minimal changes without considering the context.

I can split the commit in two to clarify the change if necessary, but creating another PR only for this seems excessive.

## SChernykh | 2024-07-04T09:42:51+00:00
Splitting into two commits is fine. And while you're at it, `start_height` should then be declared as `const uint64_t` in function definition and declaration, if it's not supposed to be changed in the function.

## valldrac | 2024-07-04T11:08:14+00:00
Sure, I've split into two commits and declared `start_height` as const.

## SChernykh | 2024-07-04T11:46:00+00:00
There is a check above that `start_height` is in bounds, but you never check that `start_height - 1` is in bounds. It must be checked too.

## SChernykh | 2024-07-04T11:47:22+00:00
I guess you just shouldn't init `prev_block_id` if it's not in bounds, instead of throwing an exception like above.

## valldrac | 2024-07-05T03:53:35+00:00
You're right. It could fail if the blockchain is trimmed to one block. I just fixed it.

# Action History
- Created by: valldrac | 2024-05-28T18:18:02+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-07-16T22:49:00+00:00
