---
title: 'wallet: avoid premature elevation of auto fee'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9767
author: nahuhh
assignees: []
labels:
- enhancement
- pending review
- wallet
created_at: '2025-02-04T00:15:24+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-03-19T21:11:51+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
The intent of this PR is 
1. **If blocks are full**, to also require a backlog in the tx pool (previously acted on blocks alone). This avoids elevating the fee (will reduce the fee to low) if the txpool is empty.
2. **If blocks are NOT full**, to only elevate if the tx pool has >1 block backlog (previously 1 block would elevate). This helps avoid raising the fee everytime someone consolidates or there is a slow block.

# Discussion History
## plowsof | 2025-02-04T10:22:58+00:00
forgot to edit comment (or delete both the comment and return priority line below)? not sure whats best practice as the function ends in `return priority` anyway

## nahuhh | 2025-02-04T12:51:28+00:00
Yeah, seems redundant / duplicated but i didn't touch anything unnecessary. I can cleanup as well if the other changes are acceptable

Edit: removed redundant return

## iamamyth | 2025-02-05T19:02:16+00:00
I'm not sure about removing `return 1` here: Pretty much everywhere I can see (esp. `get_base_fee`, `get_fee_multiplier`), 0 either eventually gets mapped to 1, or a priority higher than 1 (see get_fee_multiplier, ~ line 8496). Furthermore, the comment in `get_base_fee` suggests a zero priority is allowed as a convenience, but undesirable:
```
    // clamp and map to 0..3 indices, mapping 0 (default, but should not end up here) to 0, and 1..4 to 0..3
    if (priority == 0)
      priority = 1;
```

The one thing I can say: The priority semantics seem ill-defined.

## nahuhh | 2025-02-05T19:07:30+00:00
On L8708 it should return 

Yes, 0 is "auto".
auto = 1 by default (low), 2 when elevated (normal)

## iamamyth | 2025-02-05T20:26:45+00:00
The fall-through on 8708 returns 0, not 1. Per my above comment, they don't behave the same in all cases (p1 ends up paying fees <= p0, typically equal).

## nahuhh | 2025-02-05T20:54:50+00:00
Looking at 8496, it looks like forcing 1 was incorrect (?) And that it should follow the algo that 0 defines.

happy to change to 1 if that is wrong. Intended behavior of 0 is to he automatic, and that is to (at present) to switch between 1 and 2 depending on network conditions. Forcing 1 if elsewhere 0 is supposed to == 2, sounds wrong

Edit: there are other cases within the if condition on 8637 (like a short blockchain) that return 0. 0 is mapped as "1... unless". Falling through to 0 is consistent with the other returns when failing to test the conditions (8649 and 8685)

## iamamyth | 2025-02-06T00:05:30+00:00
I think you're misreading the purpose of `adjust_priority`, both due to its structure (the if which gates the `return 1`, and the preceding `return priority` lines, strongly suggest `return 1` wasn't a mistake, and the log message immediately preceding the statement makes the intention even clearer), and precisely because of the difference in `get_fee_multiplier` behavior and the rather explicit comment in `get_base_fee`. More broadly, I would advise against changing a function's behavior unless one knows it to be errant.

## iamamyth | 2025-02-06T00:22:52+00:00
To avoid any doubt, I would document `adjust_priority` roughly as follows:
```
If the given priority is the default priority and `auto_low_priority` has been set, return one of the following (in order of preference):
1. The lowest possible priority, when such a priority appears unlikely to delay the transaction.
2. Priority two (roughly "medium priority"), when the transaction would likely benefit from a higher priority.
In all other cases, return the original priority unchanged.
```

## iamamyth | 2025-02-06T00:42:37+00:00
Or to summarize in a single sentence: I think the whole point of the function is to adjust *out of* the default priority, so returning it back to the caller defeats its main goal in 1/2 of the relevant scenarios.

## nahuhh | 2025-02-06T11:44:34+00:00
Thanks, pushed

# Action History
- Created by: nahuhh | 2025-02-04T00:15:24+00:00
