---
title: '[seraphis] seraphis_crypto: add crypto utils'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9196
author: UkoeHB
assignees: []
labels:
- enhancement
- pending review
- carrot
created_at: '2024-02-22T01:26:35+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-02-22T22:33:28+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
This is a PR in my 'upstreaming seraphis_lib project', the changes here are not used anywhere yet.

Adds a set of crypto utility functions. Some functions were taken from code written by Sarang:
- `invert()`: bulletproofs2.cpp
- `decompose()`: triptych experimental branch
- `kronecker_delta()`: triptych experimental branch
- `convolve()`: triptych experimental branch

These are security-critical functions.

# Discussion History
## DangerousFreedom1984 | 2024-02-22T11:48:22+00:00
Where did you get the invert function from?
What are the requirements on the scalar so this operation works properly?
What would be the effect of inverting on clamped scalars?
Any comments on this [phrase](https://doc.libsodium.org/advanced/point-arithmetic#scalar-multiplication-without-clamping) here?

> In order to prevent attacks using small subgroups, the scalarmult functions above clear lower bits of the scalar. This may be indesirable to build protocols that requires n to be invertible.


## UkoeHB | 2024-02-22T18:26:28+00:00
> Where did you get the invert function from?

As I said in the PR comment "Some functions were taken from code written by Sarang:" "invert(): bulletproofs2.cpp"

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-22T20:45:42+00:00
```suggestion
void decompose(const std::size_t val, const std::size_t base, const std::size_t size, std::vector<std::size_t> &r_out)
{
    CHECK_AND_ASSERT_THROW_MES(base > 1, "Bad decomposition parameters!");
    CHECK_AND_ASSERT_THROW_MES(r_out.size() == size, "Bad decomposition result vector size!");

    std::size_t temp = val;

    for (std::size_t i = 0; i < size; ++i)
    {
        r_out[i] = temp % base;
        temp /= base;
    }
```

This should also be slightly faster, assuming that the compiler optimizes `temp % base` and `temp /= base` into one instruction (e.g. `div` on x86), since we would still only have 1 div, and no `std::pow`. 

## UkoeHB | 2024-02-22T21:36:42+00:00
You can't remove the `size > 0` constraint.

## UkoeHB | 2024-02-22T21:39:18+00:00
Also I disagree about the implicit resize. This needs to be explicit in the caller because the digits vector is accessed by index.

## UkoeHB | 2024-02-22T21:43:23+00:00
Also your solution does not right-justify the digits within the output vector.

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-22T22:00:06+00:00
You can remove the `size > 0` constaint on this implementation since no undefined behavior will occur if `size == 0`. If size being strictly positive is a concern for callers, then the callers should assert that. In a similar vein, it depends if the implicit resize is fine to a paranoid caller, since `r_out` is always resized to `size`, the caller can reasonably expect the output to be of size `size`. If you make it part a requirement of the function to actually resize it to that value, then an implicit resize should be fine IMO, but that's a matter of personal preference.


I'm confused by what you mean by "right justity" the digits. My impl should match the same behavior. IIUC, your impl also doesn't right-justify, it left-justifies. If `base^(size-1)` > `val`, the "right hand side" (higher indices, MSB side) will be filled with 0s. 

## UkoeHB | 2024-02-22T22:08:52+00:00
Ok nvm your implementation is valid, other than the implicit resize which I still don't agree with. This is designed as a C-like method where the input is like an array.

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-22T22:21:32+00:00
Could we drop the `size` parameter then? 

## UkoeHB | 2024-02-22T22:27:33+00:00
No, this code is hyper-explicit.

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-22T22:31:20+00:00
Ok, updated the suggestion diff

# Action History
- Created by: UkoeHB | 2024-02-22T01:26:35+00:00
