---
title: 'cryptonote_core: introducing rwlock mechanism'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9181
author: '0xFFFC0000'
assignees: []
labels:
- enhancement
- pending review
- important
created_at: '2024-02-19T10:50:28+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-05-22T19:58:20+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
Draft : [9173](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9173)
 
**This is a low-level explanation of design decisions. For simple use, just use `RWLOCK` and `RLOCK` macros which take care of all the details.**

## RecursiveReadWriteLock Design

Since we are recursively calling read/write operations, we needed a new locking mechanism to take care of that. All the design decisions are exactly the same as canonical ReadWrite locks, with a few extra decisions to make it fit other needs. Here are general ideas about this lock:

1. Writes and Reads are exclusive. Meaning if there are read(s) going on, acquiring write will block.
2. You can have as many concurrent reads as `UINT32_MAX`.
3. Once you have the `write` lock you can start `read` operation(s) inside it too. Meaning a `write` transaction can have `read` transaction(s). But `read` transactions, cannot have `write` unless all `read`s are released the lock.
4. `RWLOCK` and `RLOCK` macros are provided which abstracts all the details. Generally, you **only need** to use these macros and should not need to touch low-level locking API.
5. `RWLOCK` and `RLOCK` are valid for the scope.


### API Design

As I mentioned `write` transaction can include a `read` transaction too. For example, this is a low-level example of acquiring and releasing the lock:

E.g.
```
// Next line will acquire the write lock
// and will return true, meaning you are required to call end_write.
bool rw_release_required = m_blockchain.start_write();
.
.
    // Next line will acquire the read lock
    // and will return false, meaning you are not required to call end_read.
    bool r_release_required = m_blockchain.start_read();
    .
    .
    .
    if (r_release_required) m_blockchain.end_read();
.
.
if (rw_release_required) m_blockchain.end_write();
```

Or if we use macros to take care of this:
```
{
    // Write lock will be acquired next line.
    // and released when the scope ends.
    RWLOCK(m_blockchain);
    .
    .
    {
        // Read lock will be acquired next line,
        // and released when the scope ends.
        RLOCK(m_blockchain);
        .
        .
    }

}
```

Another example of recursive reads:
```
{
    // Read lock will be acquired next line.
    // and released when the scope ends.
    RLOCK(m_blockchain);
    .
    .
    {
        // Read lock will be acquired next line,
        // and released when the scope ends.
        RLOCK(m_blockchain);
        .
        .
    }

}
```

Another example of recursive writes:
```
{
    // Write lock will be acquired next line.
    // and released when the scope ends.
    RWLOCK(m_blockchain);
    .
    .
    {
        // Write lock will be acquired next line,
        RWLOCK(m_blockchain);
        .
        .
    }

}
```

### Testing

This PR contains a testing suite for the lock. The test runs 4 different cases with `10`, `50`, `100` and `1000` threads, and each one has two iterations. In each test, *a random number* of writers and readers will start, and each reader and writer will run *a random number* of cycles. Each cycle is a wait and randomly (~20%) decide to recurse or not.

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2024-03-01T14:24:02+00:00
Why not use `boost::shared_mutex` with `boost::shared_lock` and `boost::unique_lock` directly? Why the extra logic? It already handles all the waiting logic, etc. Is it so the thread can re-enter the write lock? This doesn't appear possible in the two current use cases.

And if you want the extra logic, why not use the same naming scheme so that `boost::unique_lock` and `boost::shared_lock` can be used instead of the custom RAII object/macro (that allocates memory, whereas the boost lock templates do not).

## vtnerd | 2024-03-01T14:49:27+00:00
The function returns here without calling `unlock()` ?

## vtnerd | 2024-03-01T14:51:14+00:00
This breaks a post condition of `lock_reader` ... ? And doesn't the check need to be made inside of the `scoped_lock`.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-03-03T14:15:31+00:00
That is the core problem of what makes this complex. `Blockchain` APIs in `blockchain.cpp` can call each other recursively. 

Now you can redesign all of them, and remove recursive locking. But that would be much more work than this. And needs a lot of logical/semantical changes.  

For example, `A`->`B`->`C`. 

`A` acquires `write-lock`.
`B` acquires `read-lock`.
`C` acquires `read-lock`. 

## vtnerd | 2024-03-03T14:30:23+00:00
Then follow the existing naming scheme for `boost::scoped_lock` and `boost::shared_lock`.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-03-03T15:19:05+00:00
What naming scheme? 

And keep in mind, these four methods: 

1. `start_read`
2. `end_read`
3. `start_write`
4. `end_write`

Should not be used directly.  The main interface to use this lock is `RLOCK` and `RWLOCK`. The only reason we need those 4 methods is in case the user wants to do something custom with the lock. For example in this specific case [1] we have to use these methods instead of `RLOCK` and `RWLOCK` since we are locking and unlocking the lock inside the scope [2]. Keeping the logic exactly like the original implementation [3].

1. https://github.com/0xFFFC0000/monero/blob/494d6be27e9de576f291428d42fc401d4196327f/src/cryptonote_core/blockchain.cpp#L5045
2. https://github.com/0xFFFC0000/monero/blob/494d6be27e9de576f291428d42fc401d4196327f/src/cryptonote_core/blockchain.cpp#L5065
3. https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/7b7958bbd9d76375c47dc418b4adabba0f0b1785/src/cryptonote_core/blockchain.cpp#L5074

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-03-03T15:25:41+00:00
I might be missing something. But I specifically used `CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES2` to not return and only assert fail and report it [1]. 

and the `unlock` for `rw_mutex` is at line 220.


1. https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/7b7958bbd9d76375c47dc418b4adabba0f0b1785/contrib/epee/include/misc_log_ex.h#L205C64-L205C73

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-03-03T15:35:44+00:00
Again I am using `CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES2` and I believe it does not throw. So even if assert fails, it only logs and moves ahead [1].

One thing to keep in mind is, that the check for the `UINT32_MAX` number of readers is auxiliary. 

For example, the Linux kernel uses this function to calculate the maximum number of threads allowed [2] and its value is `int` [3]. I cannot think of any scenario in which we can surpass `UINT32_MAX`.

1. https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/7b7958bbd9d76375c47dc418b4adabba0f0b1785/contrib/epee/include/misc_log_ex.h#L205C64-L205C73
2. https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/04b8076df2534f08bb4190f90a24e0f7f8930aca/kernel/fork.c#L1014
3. https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/04b8076df2534f08bb4190f90a24e0f7f8930aca/kernel/fork.c#L132

## vtnerd | 2024-03-03T16:22:16+00:00
Wait, `CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES2` doesn't `return` immediately? Whereas `CHECK_AND_ASSERT_MES_NO_RET` does? Confusing.

And I still think you have to perform the check after acquiring the mutex.

> For example, the Linux kernel uses this function to calculate the maximum number of threads allowed [2] and its value is int [3]. I cannot think of any scenario in which we can surpass UINT32_MAX.

What's the purpose of the check then? Just to inform the user? The only other option is to spin loop block.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-03-03T16:29:00+00:00
> And I still think you have to perform the check after acquiring the mutex.

The reason is the mutex is blocking. and for the debugging, I wanted to see the checks before blocks. But this is one of the cases that I am open to either way. I will put it on my TODO list. In the next push will move the check inside the lock. 

> Just to inform the user? 
Yes. Exactly. Since debugging locks is hard and tricky I left it there if in **_an extremely_** rare scenario, in 15 years, if the user hits this problem, at least we can see it in the log files. I am open to removing that check too, since not directly related to core logic of the lock.

## vtnerd | 2024-03-03T16:35:36+00:00
> What naming scheme?

If you used the names that `shared_mutex` uses, then `unique_lock` and `shared_lock` could be used instead of the `RLOCK` and `RWLOCK` macros. This does not prevent direct calls into those functions.

So:
 * `start_read` -> `lock_shared`
 * `end_read` -> `unlock_shared`
 * `start_write` -> `lock`
 * `end_write` -> `unlock`

Then `RLOCK` becomes `boost::shared_lock<reader_writer_lock>` and `RWLOCK` becomes `boost::unique_lock<reader_writer_lock>`. I think this is preferable; no allocation is performed.

However, using those classes may require other functions (such as `try_shared_lock`)?

## vtnerd | 2024-03-03T16:35:56+00:00
Yes, I looked up the definition for the macro, and it doesn't `return` (whereas I thought it does).

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-03-03T16:46:20+00:00
I see your point. Few points to consider: 

1. `RLOCK`/`RWLOCK` was @moneromooo-monero suggestion and appeared to be a good solution. 
2. What you are saying makes sense to me too. But We have to go one level deeper. And possibility introduce a lot of complexity where we exactly don't want any complexity. For example, we have to evaluate what are the **_exact_** requirements of `boost::shared_lock` and `boost::unique_lock` [1].  That includes support for all the operations they provide. On top of that, that code should be debugged and make sure 100% of those features (that we don't want 99% of them) don't have any bugs or unintended side effects. That looks to me like a slippery slope. 




https://github.com/boostorg/thread/blob/aec18d337f41d8e3081ee65f5cf3b5090179ab0e/include/boost/thread/lock_types.hpp#L503

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-03-03T16:48:55+00:00
Keep in mind, that we eventually want to remove recursive locking. This PR is a mid-term solution. Until we clean all the APIs inside the `blockchain`. Once all of those APIs are cleaned. We can simply use `std::shared_mutex`  and `std::mutex`. 

Cleaning those APIs will introduce a lot of semantical/logical changes to the code. So it is better to go slowly IMHO,

## jeffro256 | 2024-03-04T04:39:43+00:00
Is this the behavior that we want: that we can't call a read function inside of a write function, even inside the same thread?

## jeffro256 | 2024-03-04T04:47:20+00:00
Even if this check is auxiliary, technically `read_mode` either needs to be atomic, or the check needs to happen when `internal_mutex` is owned, if you want the loaded value of `read_mode` to be well-defined. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-03-04T06:43:49+00:00
Nevermind: this returns whether lock was just now acquired, not whether overall acquisition is a success

## jeffro256 | 2024-03-04T06:52:03+00:00
Unfortunately, this locking/waiting pattern *may* cause more issues than the current code because we are now much more likely to experience writer starvation. Before, if there were 1000 readers and one writer, the writer was on equal footing as the rest of the read threads. Current code is still not fair, but the writer thread has the same chance as acquiring exclusive access as all other threads, which are attempting to acquire exclusively as well. However, now, the write lock will continually thrash and refuse to even attempt the lock if there is even one active reader, indefinitely. As long as new readers keep coming in, the writer is never even guaranteed the chance to even ask for the lock. In practice, this may cause the chain to never move forward with enough readers. 

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-03-04T08:38:35+00:00
Yes. `have_write` is for cases where you do have `write-lock` and recursively want to acquire `read-lock` too. 

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-03-04T09:03:56+00:00
*Starvation* might happen in extremely rare cases. That is why I am insisting this is an **_intermediary_** step until most of the APIs inside `Blockchain` are fixed. 

But your analysis is not 100% **_accurate_**. In the current locking mechanism, we lock the entire blockchain for every read. Let me explain a hypothetical scenario: 

There are multiple read transactions: `R1`, `R2`, `R3`, `R4`, `R5`, `R6`, `R7`, and `R8`.
There are single write transactions: `W1`. 

In the current locking mechanism: 
`Core1`: `R1` -> `R2`  -> `R3`  -> `R4`  -> `R5`  -> `R6` -> `R7`  -> `R8` -> `W1`
`Core2`:  
`Core3`: 
`Core4`: 
`Core5`: 
`Core6`: 
`Core7`: 
`Core8`: 

But in reader-writer locking mechanism:
`Core1`: `R1` `W1`
`Core2`: `R2` 
`Core3`: `R3`
`Core4`: `R4`
`Core5`: `R5`
`Core6`: `R6`
`Core7`: `R7`
`Core8`: `R8`



Now what you saying is a stream of `read` transactions coming to starve the `write`. It is a *theoretical* possibility. 

Basically, an attacker should brute-force you with `read` transactions to the point that all of your cores are `100%`.



## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-03-04T09:30:11+00:00
McKenney, Paul E., Silas Boyd-Wickizer, and Jonathan Walpole. "RCU usage in the linux kernel: One decade later." Technical report (2013).

Talks about a similar issue in the section `5.3 Retry Readers`.

One other good discussion is: https://github.com/openssl/openssl/issues/20715#issue-1663231414

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-03-04T20:29:39+00:00
Thanks @vtnerd  @jeffro256 . Fixed in new push.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-03-04T20:34:27+00:00
It is fixed in a new push. The `reader_writer` lock does have an internal `queue` right now. The `queue` is for keeping track of work. 

Let me give you an example of how it works now: 


There are multiple read transactions: `R1`, `R2`, `R3`, `R4`, `R5`, `R6`, `R7`, `R8`, `R9`, `R10`, `R11`.
There are single write transactions: `W1`. 

The order of arrival is: `R1`, `R2`, `R3`, `R4`, `R5`, `R6`, `R7`, `R8`, `W1`, `R9`, `R10`, `R11`.

In the current locking mechanism: 
`Core1`: `R1` -> `R2`  -> `R3`  -> `R4`  -> `R5`  -> `R6` -> `R7`  -> `R8` -> `W1` -> `R9`-> `R10`-> `R11` 
`Core2`:  
`Core3`: 
`Core4`: 
`Core5`: 
`Core6`: 
`Core7`: 
`Core8`: 

But in new reader-writer locking mechanism:
`Core1`: `R1` `W1` `R9`
`Core2`: `R2` ____ `R10`
`Core3`: `R3` ____ `R11`
`Core4`: `R4`
`Core5`: `R5`
`Core6`: `R6`
`Core7`: `R7`
`Core8`: `R8`



## jeffro256 | 2024-05-21T16:06:42+00:00
Please revert whitespace change

## jeffro256 | 2024-05-21T16:06:52+00:00
Please revert whitespace change

## jeffro256 | 2024-05-21T16:17:20+00:00
If we're going to use `RLOCK` here, I'd recommended marking this method as `const`. 

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-05-22T18:50:25+00:00
Thanks. Will be fixed in the new push.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-05-22T18:50:25+00:00
Thanks. Will be fixed in the new push.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-05-22T19:08:32+00:00
That is great suggestion. At first, I was hesitant, but after a little bit of recollecting, that might introduce some tiny (but important) optimization + simplify the code (which we need). 

I will add `const` qualifier for the methods we need. And do a benchmark with it that way. 

## SChernykh | 2024-05-22T19:56:34+00:00
It's not just an optimization. It is to prevent further bugs in the code when someone tries to modify something inside a read-only lock.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-05-22T19:58:20+00:00
@SChernykh exactly. I am adding these (`const` qualifiers) to the final version of this PR.

# Action History
- Created by: 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-02-19T10:50:28+00:00
