---
title: 'blockchain sync: reduce disk writes from 2 to 1 per tx'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9135
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels:
- enhancement
- important
- daemon
- consensus
created_at: '2024-01-24T23:08:21+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-03-10T17:35:43+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-03-10T16:16:29+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-03-10T16:16:29+00:00'
---

# Original Description
## Summary

Pros:
* During sync, instead of performing 1 write, then 1 read, then one write for each tx in the chain, we just write once. This increases the lifespan of the disk and speeds up badly buffered / not buffered I/O. On a newer NVME and with a Ryzen 9 3900X, blockchain sync was around 3-4% faster. Differences will be more pronounced for systems bottle-necked by disk speed. 
* This PR is backwards compatible to receive `NOTIFY_NEW_BLOCK` commands, but the code paths between `handle_notify_new_block` and `handle_notify_new_fluffy_block` are merged for less code surface and review time.

Cons:
* Complicated review

Hopefully this will move `monerod` towards being slightly more workable for hard drives in the future.

## Design

### New: `cryptonote::ver_non_input_consensus()`

I have created a function `cryptonote::ver_non_input_consensus()` in `tx_verification_utils` that checks all consensus rules for a group of transactions besides the checks in `Blockchain::check_tx_inputs()`. For `Blockchain::handle_block_to_main_chain`, this is the condition that txs must satisfy before being attempted to be checked for inputs and added to blocks. This function is the most important component that MUST be correct or otherwise chain splits / inflation could occur. To audit the correctness of this function, start at the function `cryptonote::core::handle_incoming_txs()` in the old code and step through of the rules checked until the end of the function `cryptonote::tx_memory_pool::add_tx()`. `cryptonote::ver_non_input_consensus()` should cover all of those rules. 

### Modified: `core::handle_incoming_tx[s]()`

Before, `cryptonote::core::handle_incoming_txs()` was responsible for parsing all txs (inside blocks and for pool), checking their semantics, passing those txs to the mempool, and notifying ZMQ. Now, `cryptonote::core::handle_incoming_txs()` is deleted and there is only `cryptonote::core::handle_incoming_tx()`. `cryptonote::core::handle_incoming_tx()` is now basically just a wrapper around `tx_memory_pool::add_tx()`, additionally triggering ZMQ events, and is only called for new transaction notifications from the protocol handler (not block downloads).

### Modified: `tx_memory_pool::add_tx()`

All of the consensus checks besides `Blockchain::check_tx_inputs()` inside of `add_tx()` were removed and replaced with a call to `cryptonote::ver_non_input_consensus()`. The relay checks remain the same.

### Modified: `Blockchain::add_block()`

`add_block()` now takes a structure called a "pool supplement" which is simply a map of TXIDs to their corresponding `cryptonote::transaction` and transaction blob. When `handle_block_to_main_chain` attempts to take transactions from the transaction pool to add a new block, if that fails, then it falls back on taking txs from the pool supplement. The pool supplement has all the non-input consensus rules checked after the PoW check is done. If the block ends up getting handled in `Blockchain::handle_alternative_block`, then the pool supplement transactions are added to the `tx_memory_pool` after their respective alt PoW checks.

### Modified: `t_cryptonote_protocol_handler::handle_notify_new_fluffy_block()`

The main difference with this function now is that we construct a pool supplement and pass that to `core::handle_incoming_block()` instead of calling `core::handle_incoming_txs()` to add everything to the mempool first.

### Modified: `t_cryptonote_protocol_handler::try_add_next_blocks()`

The changes are very similar to the changes made to `handle_notify_new_fluffy_block`.

### Modified: `t_cryptonote_protocol_handler::handle_notify_new_block()`

Before, this function has separate handling logic, but now we just convert the `NOTIFY_NEW_BLOCK` request into a `NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK` request and call `handle_notify_new_block` with it. This saves us having to make the same changes to both code paths.



# Discussion History
## SChernykh | 2024-01-25T07:55:32+00:00
It should be `if (tx.version >= 2)`, RingCT is version 2.

## vtnerd | 2024-01-25T17:31:01+00:00
This seems unrelated, and is already in another PR ... ? Same thing with the core_proxy tests. It seems best to leave them in and let the other PR handle it.

## vtnerd | 2024-01-25T17:41:37+00:00
`blk_txids_set` doesn't appear to be used after this. Remove it?

## vtnerd | 2024-01-25T18:35:13+00:00
Again, good cleanup, but I suggest removing from this PR.

## vtnerd | 2024-01-25T23:37:57+00:00
Was fluffy block always sending 0 transactions previously? Because that's what it looks like.

## vtnerd | 2024-01-25T23:48:39+00:00
I'm not seeing any differences in how `handle_incoming_tx_accumulated_batch` is called - why change the `is_within_compiled_block_hash_area()` call?

## vtnerd | 2024-01-26T01:17:54+00:00
Should this still check for `support_flags & P2P_SUPPORT_FLAG_FLUFFY_BLOCKS` ? I think this is acceptable, but one interesting thing is that this "forces" non-updated clients running `--no-fluffy-blocks` to accept fluffy blocks (because the client never dropped such notifications if sent).

## vtnerd | 2024-01-26T02:08:01+00:00
This is already in anonymous namespace, so `static` can be pretty much dropped. Although perhaps dropping both the anonymous namespace and `static`, and declaring them `inline`would be better. Otherwise multiple copies could appear in the final executable.

## vtnerd | 2024-01-26T02:08:16+00:00
Same thing with this `static`.

## vtnerd | 2024-01-26T02:47:56+00:00
This check appears to be dropped completely - intentional? There are similar but not identical checks elsewhere.

## vtnerd | 2024-01-26T15:47:17+00:00
This seems unrelated too ? If so, put in another PR as this can be merged quicker.

## vtnerd | 2024-01-26T16:35:11+00:00
Why was this removed?

## vtnerd | 2024-01-26T16:37:51+00:00
This now throws on error instead of returning false. Worth a `try`/`catch` (or is this verified elsewhere before this) ?

## vtnerd | 2024-01-26T16:44:43+00:00
Why drop this?

## vtnerd | 2024-01-26T17:09:02+00:00
The other option is to use a boost transform iterator.  Something like:

```c++
auto transformer = [] (const pool_supplement_t::value_type& in) -> const transaction&
{ return in.second.first };

auto begin = boost::make_transform_iterator(pool_supplement.cbegin(), transformer);
auto end = boost::make_transform_iterator(pool_supplement.cend(), transformer);
ver_non_input_consensus_templated(begin, end, tvc, hf_version, pool_supplement.size());
```
You can also use boost::range if you switch the argument type of the templated function to accept a single range (and use epee::span for the single element).

## vtnerd | 2024-01-26T17:43:50+00:00
`patse` -> `parse`.

## vtnerd | 2024-01-26T17:52:39+00:00
Crap. This is very unfortunate, it is far more efficient to send all txes in a batch. You've made so many changes in here I'm not certain how to do it at a glance.

## vtnerd | 2024-01-26T18:22:10+00:00
I meant to delete this, as I hadn't dug into the details fully, but whatever.

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-26T22:21:13+00:00
Yeah I can remove these changes to this specific file, I just added the commit from that PR for removing the `core_proxy` tests since I didn't want reviewers to have to review the downstream changes to the `core_proxy` tests which are going to be removed anyways.

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-26T22:23:22+00:00
Yes it was. I'm making the slight change that we relay exactly the transactions that we only knew about because of this notification. The vast majority of the time, that should be 0. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-26T22:26:01+00:00
You're right, that's a remnant of old code. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-26T22:34:48+00:00
We skip semantics checks if the tx is in a block in the checkpoint zone inside `Blockchain::handle_block_to_main_chain()` since we don't call `ver_non_input_consensus()` on the pool supplement if `fast_check==true`. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-26T22:36:24+00:00
IMO no, since it's already possible to send them a notification anyways and they don't drop it, but I have an open mind about it.

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-26T22:38:59+00:00
Yes... although it might be good to double check: there should be a strictly more stringent *consensus* tx weight test in `ver_non_input_consensus()` for all transactions in hard fork >= v8.  

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-26T22:40:48+00:00
I changed the function signature of `core::handle_incoming_tx` from accepting a `tx_blob_entry` to a `blobdata`, so I was just asserting here (to find bugs easier) that we weren't using the prunable hash anyways (which we shouldn't be).

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-26T22:41:17+00:00
It is now checked in `ver_non_input_consensus()`

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-26T22:43:29+00:00
Because it is now normal behavior to not actually find transaction meta info in the mempool when adding blocks to the main chain since we have the pool supplement. When you leave the line in, the console gets spammed with thousands of lines of "Failed to find tx_meta in txpool" despite it syncing correctly. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-26T22:50:46+00:00
`core::handle_incoming_tx` is now used only for tx relay, not blockchain sync (I updated the main comment at the top with some pointers about the design), which means you were probably receiving one at a time here anyways. It depends on which events we want to do, but it shouldn't be hard to make a batch of transaction events and send them out after the protocol handler successfully calls `core::handle_incoming_block()`.

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-26T23:44:44+00:00
It should be verified inside `ver_non_input_consensus()`, but it's worth double checking 

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-01-28T21:30:04+00:00
When I benchmarked this PR, I hit segfault here. 

The stack trace was coming from here [1]. I am putting the stack-trace here for you too. Sadly `ebt_it` is optimized out. But if we go down to `erase` and look at the value `__position`: 
```
{<std::__detail::_Node_iterator_base<std::pair<crypto::hash const, std::pair<cryptonote::transaction, std::__cxx11::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> > > >, true>> = {_M_cur = 0x0}, <No data fields>}
```

I will debug this further in case this information is not enough. 

1. https://github.com/jeffro256/monero/blob/fe370e9c8186cdf2b7a7e89142042e7d921a5a2e/src/p2p/net_node.h#L322C1-L323C1

```
#0  std::_Hashtable<crypto::hash, std::pair<crypto::hash const, std::pair<cryptonote::transaction, std::__cxx11::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> > > >, std::allocator<std::pair<crypto::hash const, std::pair<cryptonote::transaction, std::__cxx11::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> > > > >, std::__detail::_Select1st, std::equal_to<crypto::hash>, std::hash<crypto::hash>, std::__detail::_Mod_range_hashing, std::__detail::_Default_ranged_hash, std::__detail::_Prime_rehash_policy, std::__detail::_Hashtable_traits<true, false, true> >::_M_bucket_index (__n=..., this=0x7fb2554e9a10) at /usr/include/c++/13/bits/hashtable.h:793
#1  std::_Hashtable<crypto::hash, std::pair<crypto::hash const, std::pair<cryptonote::transaction, std::__cxx11::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> > > >, std::allocator<std::pair<crypto::hash const, std::pair<cryptonote::transaction, std::__cxx11::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> > > > >, std::__detail::_Select1st, std::equal_to<crypto::hash>, std::hash<crypto::hash>, std::__detail::_Mod_range_hashing, std::__detail::_Default_ranged_hash, std::__detail::_Prime_rehash_policy, std::__detail::_Hashtable_traits<true, false, true> >::erase (this=this@entry=0x7fb2554e9a10, __it=..., __it@entry=...)
    at /usr/include/c++/13/bits/hashtable.h:2322
#2  0x0000555555abdd50 in std::_Hashtable<crypto::hash, std::pair<crypto::hash const, std::pair<cryptonote::transaction, std::__cxx11::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> > > >, std::allocator<std::pair<crypto::hash const, std::pair<cryptonote::transaction, std::__cxx11::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> > > > >, std::__detail::_Select1st, std::equal_to<crypto::hash>, std::hash<crypto::hash>, std::__detail::_Mod_range_hashing, std::__detail::_Default_ranged_hash, std::__detail::_Prime_rehash_policy, std::__detail::_Hashtable_traits<true, false, true> >::erase (__it=..., this=0x7fb2554e9a10)
    at /usr/include/c++/13/bits/hashtable.h:980
#3  std::unordered_map<crypto::hash, std::pair<cryptonote::transaction, std::__cxx11::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> > >, std::hash<crypto::hash>, std::equal_to<crypto::hash>, std::allocator<std::pair<crypto::hash const, std::pair<cryptonote::transaction, std::__cxx11::basic_string<char, std::char_traits<char>, std::allocator<char> > > > > >::erase (__position=..., this=0x7fb2554e9a10) at /usr/include/c++/13/bits/unordered_map.h:753
#4  cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>::handle_notify_new_fluffy_block (this=this@entry=0x7ffff7ca2010, command=command@entry=2008, arg=..., 
    context=...) at ~/developments/monero/src/cryptonote_protocol/cryptonote_protocol_handler.inl:633
#5  0x00005555557c70a2 in std::__invoke_impl<int, int (cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>::*&)(int, epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t>&, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&), cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>*&, int&, boost::value_initialized<epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t> >&, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&> (__t=<optimized out>, __f=<optimized out>)
    at /usr/include/c++/13/bits/invoke.h:71
#6  std::__invoke<int (cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>::*&)(int, epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t>&, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&), cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>*&, int&, boost::value_initialized<epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t> >&, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&> (__fn=<optimized out>) at /usr/include/c++/13/bits/invoke.h:96
#7  std::_Bind<int (cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>::*(cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>*, std::_Placeholder<1>, std::_Placeholder<2>, std::_Placeholder<3>))(int, epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t>&, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&)>::__call<int, int&, boost::value_initialized<epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t> >&, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&, 0ul, 1ul, 2ul, 3ul>(std::tuple<int&, boost::value_initialized<epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t> >&, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&>&&, std::_Index_tuple<0ul, 1ul, 2ul, 3ul>) (__args=..., this=<optimized out>) at /usr/include/c++/13/functional:506
#8  std::_Bind<int (cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>::*(cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>*, std::_Placeholder<1>, std::_Placeholder<2>, std::_Placeholder<3>))(int, epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t>&, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&)>::operator()<int&, boost::value_initialized<epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t> >&, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&, int>(int&, boost::value_initialized<epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t> >&, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&) (this=<optimized out>)
    at /usr/include/c++/13/functional:591
#9  epee::net_utils::buff_to_t_adapter<cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>, epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t>, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context, std::_Bind<int (cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>::*(cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>*, std::_Placeholder<1>, std::_Placeholder<2>, std::_Placeholder<3>))(int, epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t>&, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&)> >(cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>*, int, epee::span<unsigned char const>, std::_Bind<int (cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>::*(cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>*, std::_Placeholder<1>, std::_Placeholder<2>, std::_Placeholder<3>))(int, epee::misc_utils::struct_init<cryptonote::NOTIFY_NEW_FLUFFY_BLOCK::request_t>&, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&)>, cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context&) (powner=0x7ffff7ca2010, context=..., cb=..., in_buff=..., command=2008) at ~/developments/monero/contrib/epee/include/storages/levin_abstract_invoke2.h:175
#10 cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core>::handle_invoke_map<cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context> (buff_out=..., handled=@0x7fb2554ea3ff: true, 
    context=..., in_buff=..., command=2008, is_notify=true, this=0x7ffff7ca2010) at ~/developments/monero/src/cryptonote_protocol/cryptonote_protocol_handler.h:79
#11 nodetool::node_server<cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core> >::handle_invoke_map<nodetool::p2p_connection_context_t<cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context> > (this=<optimized out>, is_notify=is_notify@entry=true, command=2008, in_buff=..., buff_out=..., context=..., handled=@0x7fb2554ea3ff: true)
    at ~/developments/monero/src/p2p/net_node.h:322
#12 0x00005555557c8d5d in nodetool::node_server<cryptonote::t_cryptonote_protocol_handler<cryptonote::core> >::notify (this=<optimized out>, command=<optimized out>, 
    in_buff=..., context=...) at ~/developments/monero/src/p2p/net_node.h:312
#13 0x0000555555aabe60 in epee::levin::async_protocol_handler<nodetool::p2p_connection_context_t<cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context> >::handle_recv (
    this=this@entry=0x7fb210003570, ptr=ptr@entry=0x7fb210001518, cb=cb@entry=1489)
    at ~/developments/monero/contrib/epee/include/net/levin_protocol_handler_async.h:533
#14 0x0000555555aad73c in epee::net_utils::connection<epee::levin::async_protocol_handler<nodetool::p2p_connection_context_t<cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context> > >::start_read()::{lambda(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long)#1}::operator()(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long) const::{lambda()#1}::operator()() const
    (__closure=<synthetic pointer>) at ~/developments/monero/contrib/epee/include/net/abstract_tcp_server2.inl:406
#15 boost::asio::asio_handler_invoke<epee::net_utils::connection<epee::levin::async_protocol_handler<nodetool::p2p_connection_context_t<cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context> > >::start_read()::{lambda(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long)#1}::operator()(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long) const::{lambda()#1}>(epee::net_utils::connection<epee::levin::async_protocol_handler<nodetool::p2p_connection_context_t<cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context> > >::start_read()::{lambda(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long)#1}::operator()(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long) const::{lambda()#1}&, ...) (function=<synthetic pointer>...)
    at ~/developments/monero/contrib/depends/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/include/boost/asio/handler_invoke_hook.hpp:69
#16 boost_asio_handler_invoke_helpers::invoke<epee::net_utils::connection<epee::levin::async_protocol_handler<nodetool::p2p_connection_context_t<cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context> > >::start_read()::{lambda(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long)#1}::operator()(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long) const::{lambda()#1}, epee::net_utils::connection<epee::levin::async_protocol_handler<nodetool::p2p_connection_context_t<cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context> > >::start_read()::{lambda(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long)#1}::operator()(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long) const::{lambda()#1}>(epee::net_utils::connection<epee::levin::async_protocol_handler<nodetool::p2p_connection_context_t<cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context> > >::start_read()::{lambda(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long)#1}::operator()(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long) const::{lambda()#1}&, epee::net_utils::connection<epee::levin::async_protocol_handler<nodetool::p2p_connection_context_t<cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context> > >::start_read()::{lambda(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long)#1}::operator()(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long) const::{lambda()#1}&) (context=<synthetic pointer>..., function=<synthetic pointer>...)
    at ~/developments/monero/contrib/depends/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/include/boost/asio/detail/handler_invoke_helpers.hpp:37
#17 boost::asio::detail::completion_handler<epee::net_utils::connection<epee::levin::async_protocol_handler<nodetool::p2p_connection_context_t<cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context> > >::start_read()::{lambda(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long)#1}::operator()(boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long) const::{lambda()#1}>::do_complete(boost::asio::detail::task_io_service*, boost::asio::detail::task_io_service_operation*, boost::system::error_code const&, unsigned long) (owner=0x555556a96a10, 
    base=0x7fb210018910) at ~/developments/monero/contrib/depends/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/include/boost/asio/detail/completion_handler.hpp:68
#18 0x0000555555768d65 in boost::asio::detail::task_io_service_operation::complete (bytes_transferred=0, ec=..., owner=..., this=<optimized out>)
    at ~/developments/monero/contrib/depends/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/include/boost/asio/detail/task_io_service_operation.hpp:38
#19 boost::asio::detail::strand_service::do_complete (owner=0x555556a96a10, base=0x7fb210003c80, ec=...)
    at ~/developments/monero/contrib/depends/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/include/boost/asio/detail/impl/strand_service.ipp:167
#20 0x0000555555a63c42 in boost::asio::detail::task_io_service_operation::complete (bytes_transferred=<optimized out>, ec=..., owner=..., this=0x7fb210003c80)
    at ~/developments/monero/contrib/depends/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/include/boost/asio/detail/task_io_service_operation.hpp:38
#21 boost::asio::detail::task_io_service::do_run_one (ec=..., this_thread=..., lock=..., this=0x555556a96a10)
    at ~/developments/monero/contrib/depends/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/include/boost/asio/detail/impl/task_io_service.ipp:372
#22 boost::asio::detail::task_io_service::run (ec=..., this=0x555556a96a10)
    at ~/developments/monero/contrib/depends/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/include/boost/asio/detail/impl/task_io_service.ipp:149
#23 boost::asio::io_service::run (this=<optimized out>) at ~/developments/monero/contrib/depends/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/include/boost/asio/impl/io_service.ipp:59
#24 epee::net_utils::boosted_tcp_server<epee::levin::async_protocol_handler<nodetool::p2p_connection_context_t<cryptonote::cryptonote_connection_context> > >::worker_thread
    (this=0x555556aaf910) at ~/developments/monero/contrib/epee/include/net/abstract_tcp_server2.inl:1317
#25 0x00005555563929f5 in boost::(anonymous namespace)::thread_proxy (param=<optimized out>) at libs/thread/src/pthread/thread.cpp:171
#26 0x00007ffff7d75897 in start_thread (arg=<optimized out>) at pthread_create.c:444
#27 0x00007ffff7dfc6fc in clone3 () at ../sysdeps/unix/sysv/linux/x86_64/clone3.S:78 
```

## vtnerd | 2024-01-28T21:33:38+00:00
Dandelion++ fluff mode holds transactions temporarily before sending, so its possible that multiple transactions are sent. This can be updated in a later patch if it's useful.



## vtnerd | 2024-01-28T21:58:10+00:00
Are pruned transactions "allowed" in this function?

## vtnerd | 2024-01-28T22:26:06+00:00
In future modifications, just use brace initialization. It does what `AUTO_VAL_INIT` is attempting to do.

## vtnerd | 2024-01-28T22:34:31+00:00
I think you'll want to pass the ZeroMQ handle to `add_new_block` so that `extra_block_txs` can be given to ZeroMQ PUB/SUB once checks pass. The documentation explicitly states that such transactions will be sent over PUB/SUB; this is a downgrade of explicit features, and **not** an "accident" of design.

I'm also not certain what to do on alternate chains, previously they would also be announced, but perhaps they shouldn't be. Although then we'd need logic to re-send if the alternate chain became main chain - this could wait to some future PR I think.

I think we need to either: (1) change the docs and inform everyone of a breaking change, or (2) fix the main chain sync notify case. My preference would be (2).

## vtnerd | 2024-01-28T23:50:41+00:00
This is forcing fluffy blocks on someone that explicitly requested no fluffy blocks. But losing chain sync until they disable the flag is basically the same thing with more steps.

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-29T02:44:12+00:00
What was the git HEAD commit when you compiled this binary? I also had a segfault here in a previous commit, but I have pushed a fix (or so I thought) since then.

## 0xFFFC0000 | 2024-01-29T08:47:04+00:00
The fix is working. Thanks. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-01-31T23:32:26+00:00
Okay. I pushed a commit that moved the `txpool_event` listener to the `Blockchain` class and it notifies ZMQ when taking transactions from the pool supplement. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-01T00:26:59+00:00
For simplicity, I have reverted it to the old behavior, where no txs are sent originally 

## vtnerd | 2024-02-01T00:35:43+00:00
This comment is no longer true, the code does not notify in `handle_incoming_tx`.

## vtnerd | 2024-02-04T22:29:43+00:00
Just use `std::move` here, it's less confusing; this isn't the perfect forwarding case because there are no templates involved. 

## vtnerd | 2024-02-04T22:30:43+00:00
Should a finer grain lock be added for this? This is blocking unrelated calls.

## vtnerd | 2024-02-04T22:39:50+00:00
Marker for me to remember to investigate further. The `false` `bool` was to prevent notifications of a failed reorg - hopefully the new code retains the same consideration.

## vtnerd | 2024-02-04T22:45:08+00:00
Set `nic_verified_hf_version` down here? Or should this be done in `ver_non_input_consensus` ?

## vtnerd | 2024-02-05T13:21:35+00:00
Should this be set inside `ver_non_input_consensus` instead?

## vtnerd | 2024-02-05T13:24:29+00:00
You can just capture `hf_version` from above ? This call isn't too expensive, but its not exactly cheap either.

## vtnerd | 2024-02-05T13:28:27+00:00
I _think_ this now notifies during a "return" to txpool call, where it wasn't being notified in that situation previously. The documentation doesn't list anything about this particular case, so we may have to accept this change. Its a rather rare edge case anyway.

## vtnerd | 2024-02-05T18:15:03+00:00
I didn't see another check for the fee, just a check for overflow on inputs and outputs, done separately for each.

I'm not certain how an exception escaping this function alters the behavior of the code (you'd probably have a better idea than me at this point).

## vtnerd | 2024-02-05T18:36:34+00:00
Small nitpick on performance, you can move `tx_blobs` and `missed_txs` before the loop, and `.clear()` right here.

## vtnerd | 2024-02-05T18:53:43+00:00
Nevermind this comment.

## vtnerd | 2024-02-05T19:05:32+00:00
Actually I have an open question about this - see #6347 . But it looks like `notify` was being ignored, and this is just cleanup on that?

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-06T03:14:25+00:00
`notify` was being ignored with the newest versions of master, this PR reflects that behavior, but I don't know if this was the original intended behavior... it looks like it isn't

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-06T03:16:42+00:00
I can make this conditional on `!kept_by_block` which would prevent notifications on return to txpool and reorgs. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-06T03:39:08+00:00
Yes, you are correct 

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-06T04:07:53+00:00
This is a readability thing for me, but I personally don't like making the scope of variables any wider than it needs to be, especially for such an already complex function. If there's evidence that it measurably impacts performance, however, I would definitely be okay changing it to what you're suggesting.

[relevant link](https://wiki.sei.cmu.edu/confluence/display/c/DCL19-C.+Minimize+the+scope+of+variables+and+functions)

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-06T04:31:31+00:00
Nevermind that comment, this would cause alt block handling to not notify 

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-06T04:37:52+00:00
In `core::check_tx_semantic`, we check input overflow, output overflow, but also that inputs sum > outputs sum for v1 transactions. 

## j-berman | 2024-02-22T21:12:07+00:00
The `ps` is const?

## j-berman | 2024-02-22T23:50:20+00:00
I think it would be nice to have a check here that `blk_entry.txs.size() == blk_tx_hashes.size() && blk_tx_hashes.size() == blk.tx_hashes.size()`

This guarantees there aren't duplicates and that all `blk_tx_hashes` will map 1-to-1 with `tx_entries`. I can't find if this exact check is done somewhere else (probably is), but figure this would be a good early place for it anyway (either here or immediately after `make_pool_supplement_from_block_entry` inside `try_add_next_blocks`).

## j-berman | 2024-02-23T02:24:40+00:00
`--no-fluffy-blocks` meant a node wouldn't *send* fluffy blocks to its peers, not that a node wouldn't be relayed fluffy blocks from its peers (can quickly sanity check with `monerod --no-fluffy-blocks --log-level 1` and see that new blocks are still received as fluffy blocks). Someone would have to manually build a v18 `monerod` that sets the final bit of `m_support_flags` to 0 in order to ask peers not to relay fluffy blocks to their node.

So to be clear, this PR as is shouldn't prevent current nodes on the network using any v18 release version of monerod from syncing/relaying/processing blocks, even nodes with the `--no-fluffy-blocks` flag (which still receive fluffy blocks today anyway).

Maybe the log could say "RELAYING FLUFFY BLOCK TO PEER" instead of "PEER SUPPORTS FLUFFY BLOCKS" because it's no longer checking if the peer supports fluffy blocks via the `support_flags`.

## j-berman | 2024-02-23T02:27:26+00:00
Seems it would make sense to remove `bad_txs` field from `COMMAND_RPC_FLUSH_CACHE` struct (and reminder we should [update documentation](https://www.getmonero.org/resources/developer-guides/daemon-rpc.html#flush_cache) too)

## j-berman | 2024-02-23T03:37:41+00:00
"not added not pool" -> "not added to pool"

## j-berman | 2024-02-23T03:52:45+00:00
`matches_category(tx_relay, relay_category::legacy)` here would avoid publishing txs that are going to enter or are still in the stem phase of Dandelion++ / haven't been broadcasted to the entire network yet

## j-berman | 2024-02-23T04:34:52+00:00
Nit: there could be another reason that `take_tx` returns false here besides that the tx doesn't exist (some other unexpected exception in `take_tx` after the tx meta *is* found in the pool).

Main reason I bring this up is because I think it would be nice to keep `MERROR("Failed to find tx_meta in txpool");`

I suggest something like:

```cpp
    {
      m_tx_pool.lock();
      bool failed = false;
      if (m_tx_pool.have_tx(tx_id, relay_category::all))
      {
        bool _unused1, _unused2, _unused3;
        bool r = m_tx_pool.take_tx(tx_id, tx, txblob, tx_weight, fee, _unused1, _unused2, _unused3, pruned);
        m_tx_pool.unlock();
        if (!r)
        {
          MERROR_VER("Block with id: " << id  << " failed to take tx: " << tx_id);
          failed = true;
        }
      }
      else
      {
        m_tx_pool.unlock();
        found_tx_in_pool = false;
        const auto extra_tx_it = extra_block_txs.txs_by_txid.find(tx_id);
        if (extra_tx_it != extra_block_txs.txs_by_txid.end()) // if txid exists in provided extra block txs
        {
          tx = std::move(extra_tx_it->second.first);
          txblob = std::move(extra_tx_it->second.second);
          tx_weight = get_transaction_weight(tx, txblob.size());
          fee = get_tx_fee(tx);
          pruned = tx.pruned;
          extra_block_txs.txs_by_txid.erase(extra_tx_it);
          txpool_events.emplace_back(txpool_event{tx, tx_id, txblob.size(), tx_weight, true});
        }
        else // did not find txid in mempool or provided extra block txs
        {
          MERROR_VER("Block with id: " << id  << " has at least one unknown transaction with id: " << tx_id);
          bvc.m_missing_txs = true;
          failed = true;
        }
      }

      if (failed)
      {
        txs.pop_back(); // We push to the back preemptively. On fail, we need txs & txs_meta to match size
        bvc.m_verifivation_failed = true;
        return_txs_to_pool();
        return false;
      }
    }
```

Up to you. I don't have a strong opinion.

## j-berman | 2024-02-23T04:36:43+00:00
I think it would actually be good to keep this `MERROR` log if you go with my other suggestion above to call `have_tx` before `take_tx`. This log was actually helpful in debugging another issue I found once

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-23T05:39:04+00:00
`nic_verified_hf_version` is marked `mutable`

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-23T05:40:32+00:00
There's a check in `make_pool_supplement_from_block_entry` that all deserialized transactions belong to that block. 

## j-berman | 2024-02-23T19:32:37+00:00
`!blk_tx_hashes.count(tx_hash)` in the `make_pool_supplement_from_block_entry` above this one checks that for all `tx_entries`, there's at least 1 matching block hash. Strictly going off that check (and ignoring all other code), it appears there could still be duplicates in this section's `blk_entry.txs` and `blk.tx_hashes`, and separately `blk.tx_hashes` could also have more hashes than are present in `blk_entry.txs` (which is the expected case when the `make_pool_supplement_from_block_entry` above handles `tx_entries` from a new fluffy block, not when syncing a block). In combination with the check you mentioned above, making sure all the container sizes are equal after constructing the set in this function immediately makes sure that when syncing a block, there aren't duplicate `blk_entry.txs` and that `blk.tx_hashes` captures all `blk_entry.txs` 1-to-1.

I don't see anything wrong with not doing the size check here, but it's a bit of a pain to verify there aren't issues surrounding this, and it seems an easy thing to check here.

## jeffro256 | 2024-02-23T21:44:21+00:00
Okay, yeah you were right, I mistakenly thought that making sure that each tx is bound to the block would prevent dups. Technically, this also doesn't check for dups See latest commit for update. We check that for all pool supllements that that the number of txs entries is less than or equal the number of hashes. For full blocks, we check that they are equal. 

## j-berman | 2024-02-23T22:15:28+00:00
One edge case: if there's a dup in `blk.tx_hashes`, the equivalent dup in `blk_entry.txs`, and an extra hash in `blk.tx_hashes`, then the function would still return true with the dup included in the `pool_supplement`

Also checking `blk_tx_hashes.size() == blk.tx_hashes.size()` should prevent that

## j-berman | 2024-03-25T20:09:53+00:00
```suggestion
    core.handle_incoming_block(block_entry.block, pblocks.empty() ? NULL : &pblocks[blockidx++], bvc, ps, false); // <--- process block
```

For consistency?

## j-berman | 2024-03-25T20:22:04+00:00
```suggestion
            m_core.handle_incoming_block(block_entry.block,
              pblocks.empty() ? NULL : &pblocks[blockidx],
              bvc,
              block_txs,
              false); // <--- process block
```

## j-berman | 2024-03-26T02:08:47+00:00
Just a small addition to the test:

```suggestion
        # assert that the tx is in daemon2's blockchain now, instead of the mempool
        res = daemon2.get_transactions([txid])
        assert len(res.txs) == 1
        tx_details = res.txs[0]
        assert not tx_details.in_pool
        daemon2_tx_height = tx_details.block_height

        # reconnect, daemon3 will now switch to daemon2's chain
        daemon2.out_peers(8)
        daemon3.out_peers(8)
        time.sleep(5)
        res = daemon2.get_info()
        daemon2_top_block_hash = res.height
        daemon2_height = res.top_block_hash
        res = daemon3.get_info()
        daemon3_top_block_hash = res.height
        daemon3_height = res.top_block_hash
        assert daemon2_height == daemon3_height
        assert daemon2_top_block_hash == daemon3_top_block_hash

        # assert that the tx is in daemon3's blockchain now
        res = daemon3.get_transactions([txid])
        assert len(res.txs) == 1
        tx_details = res.txs[0]
        assert not tx_details.in_pool
        assert tx_details.block_height == daemon2_tx_height
```

## j-berman | 2024-03-26T07:05:59+00:00
This test fails sporadically on this line on my local. I investigated, it looks like an existing bug unrelated to this PR.

If the transfer includes an output in its ring that unlocked in block N, after popping blocks to N-2, that tx is no longer a valid tx because that output isn't unlocked yet (it fails [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/c8214782fb2a769c57382a999eaf099691c836e7/src/cryptonote_core/tx_pool.cpp#L1485-L1489)). You'd expect that once the chain advances in `daemon2.generateblocks` above, then the tx becomes valid again and should therefore be included in a later block upon advancing, but it looks like this if statement is incorrect:

https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/c8214782fb2a769c57382a999eaf099691c836e7/src/cryptonote_core/tx_pool.cpp#L1480-L1482

And it should instead be:

```cpp
//if we already failed on this height and id, skip actual ring signature check
if(txd.last_failed_id == m_blockchain.get_block_id_by_height(txd.last_failed_height) && txd.last_failed_height >= m_blockchain.get_current_blockchain_height())
  return false;
```

The ring sigs can become valid again if we're at a higher height than when the tx originally failed, so it should pass that if statement and continue on to the `check_tx_inputs` step again if so.

EDIT: slight edit to support a reorg making a tx valid

## j-berman | 2024-03-26T18:12:38+00:00
I added a test to the end of `test_p2p_tx_propagation` in my local too:

```py
        print('Testing P2P block propagation')
        res = daemon2.generateblocks('42ey1afDFnn4886T7196doS9GPMzexD9gXpsZJDwVjeRVdFCSoHnv7KPbBeGpzJBzHRCAs9UxqeoyFQMYbqSWYTfJJQAWDm', 1)
        block_height = res.height

        # wait until both are synced
        loops = 5
        while True:
            res2 = daemon2.get_info()
            res3 = daemon3.get_info()
            if res2.top_block_hash == res3.top_block_hash:
                break
            time.sleep(5)
            loops -= 1
            assert loops >= 0

        # check the tx is in both daemons
        for daemon in [daemon2, daemon3]:
            res = daemon.get_transaction_pool_hashes()
            assert not 'tx_hashes' in res or len(res.tx_hashes) == 0

            res = daemon.get_transactions([txid])
            assert len(res.txs) == 1
            tx_details = res.txs[0]
            assert not tx_details.in_pool
            assert tx_details.block_height == block_height
```

## jeffro256 | 2024-04-10T17:28:59+00:00
You're right about that check being wrong. However, even your proposed changes aren't conservative enough if you want to handle popped blocks: if the chain purely goes backwards in time (which only normally happens when `pop_blocks` is called), a transaction output with a custom `unlock_time` might actually UNLOCK. This is because `Blockchain::get_adjusted_time()` is not monotonic, so an output that is unlocked now may become locked again in a future block. 

## j-berman | 2024-04-10T17:42:23+00:00
Interesting, so this should be good:

`if(txd.last_failed_id == m_blockchain.get_block_id_by_height(txd.last_failed_height) && txd.last_failed_height == m_blockchain.get_current_blockchain_height()-1)`

## jeffro256 | 2024-04-10T17:53:48+00:00
Yes that should be good. If we wanted to get incredibly pedantic, we would also have to check that the hard fork version is greater than or equal to `HF_VERSION_DETERMINISTIC_UNLOCK_TIME`, since your system's wall-time might also not be monotonic, and consensus validation of a tx with a ring containing an output with a UNIX-interpreted `unlock_time` isn't necessarily deterministic. But I don't think we should worry about that case.

## j-berman | 2024-04-10T18:13:17+00:00
Your call

## jeffro256 | 2024-04-10T18:19:32+00:00
We should go with `if(txd.last_failed_id == m_blockchain.get_block_id_by_height(txd.last_failed_height) && txd.last_failed_height == m_blockchain.get_current_blockchain_height()-1)` IMO, since that wall-time thing won't affect any future or past transactions, it's only a technicality. 

## vtnerd | 2024-07-30T18:38:59+00:00
We might want to use `boost::lock_guard` instead, as we typically use boost for thread related things. I don't think it matters in this case; the suggestion is mostly for aesthetics/consistency.

## vtnerd | 2024-07-30T20:05:10+00:00
Same here.

## vtnerd | 2024-07-31T17:37:58+00:00
This really should be a `.find` with a `.end()` check. This implementation does 4 lookups (`.count()`, `.operator[]` (twice), and `.erase`).

## vtnerd | 2024-07-31T17:42:56+00:00
Instead of the lock+`have_tx`+`take_tx`, why not perform a single `take_tx` call first, and then look in `extra_block_txs` when that fails? The only downside is a log statement in `take_tx`.

## vtnerd | 2024-08-01T13:58:09+00:00
Why not put this lock before the loop? This is held through the bulk of the work anyway.

## vtnerd | 2024-08-04T01:56:49+00:00
I think this change is incorrect. You need something like:

```c++
  if (txd.last_failed_height && txd.last_failed_id == m_blockchain.get_block_id_by_height(txd.last_failed_height))
    return false;
```

The first check is needed because `null_hash` is technically a valid value (but exceptionally rare). I think the original code should've included this.

The `txd.get_current_blockchain_height() > txd.last_failed_height` check can _probably_ be removed.

However, the last check is the most important - this appears to be tracking/caching whether a tx inputs are invalid **after** a certain height. Your change here will force a `check_tx_inputs` check every new block, instead of only after a reorg.

## vtnerd | 2024-08-04T02:33:21+00:00
This has been around since 2017, and its removal isn't strictly needed for this PR. I would keep it, and analyze later in a separate PR.

The locations of the inserts/finds will have to move slightly, but it's still possible.

## vtnerd | 2024-08-04T18:16:45+00:00
This check was dropped, but it looks like both uses of `is_transaction_ready_to_go` also do this check. Is that the reason this was dropped?

## jeffro256 | 2024-08-13T17:31:10+00:00
I used `std::lock_guard` to not further cement Boost dependencies, and since `std::mutex` and `std::lock_guard` are already used within the codebase, I think it shouldn't affect binary size. However, I'm not incredibly opinionated either way.

## jeffro256 | 2024-08-13T20:09:09+00:00
Done in the latest commit

## jeffro256 | 2024-08-13T20:10:35+00:00
Check latest commit. I added a flag in `take_tx` called `suppress_missing_msgs` which defaults to `false`, but it `true` here. That removed the extra locking and call to `have_tx` without spamming the console with thousands of bogus messages. 

## jeffro256 | 2024-08-13T20:11:02+00:00
Done in latest commit

## jeffro256 | 2024-08-13T20:11:38+00:00
Would it be harder to review that it is removed or that the new updates to the code are correct?

## jeffro256 | 2024-08-13T20:18:46+00:00
> Your change here will force a check_tx_inputs check every new block, instead of only after a reorg.

Yes, this was the intended goal. The act of checking tx unlock times against a non-monotonic moving value of `get_adjusted_time()` makes it so that a transaction can pass `check_tx_inputs` at block X, but fail at block Y>X, and then re-pass at block Z>Y. This is discussed further at https://github.com/monero-project/meta/issues/966#issuecomment-1936243293.

## jeffro256 | 2024-08-14T02:55:54+00:00
Yes, and inside `check_tx_inputs`

## vtnerd | 2024-08-14T15:19:12+00:00
We're already using it all over the place.

## vtnerd | 2024-09-05T00:44:19+00:00
This should be `std::move(event)` otherwise a copy occurs here.

## vtnerd | 2024-09-05T00:47:27+00:00
My initial thought would be that it is harder to review with it removed. I'd have to dig into why it was added to make sure that its removal isn't going to affect anything.

## vtnerd | 2024-09-06T17:13:29+00:00
I think this changed from existing behavior. This might be intended.

The existing code calls `have_tx(txid, relay_category::legacy)` in `core::handle_incoming_txs`, and then does an `add_tx` with `relay_method::block`. The tx metadata then gets "upgraded" to `relay_method::block` from all other relay method types. This new `relay_category::all` check prevents an upgrade from happening.

This is problematic because the RPC channels (amongst other places) will continue "hiding" the tx if in `relay_method::stem` mode, when it needs to begin reporting the tx as seen.

## jeffro256 | 2025-01-28T17:54:03+00:00
Great observation, thank you. This wasn't an intended change in behavior. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-01-28T19:29:53+00:00
Done

## jeffro256 | 2025-01-28T19:44:23+00:00
`bad_semantics_txes` acts as an optimization for a happy-case failure where a bad transaction is being floated around, but not modified. I think that `bad_semantics_txes` *maybe* makes sense for handling individual mempool transactions, but not for transactions passed as part of a block. For two reasons: 1) we now do PoW verification for blocks before transactions, which makes the cache largely worthless, and 2) calling `ver_consensus_non_input()` on a `pool_supplement_t` verifies a *group* of transactions are *all* valid, so in order to restore the functionality of `bad_semantics_txes` for transactions passed in a block, we'd have to rewrite/review `ver_consensus_non_input()` being able to return exactly which transactions failed (which isn't always possible with batch verification). 

## vtnerd | 2025-02-17T00:08:40+00:00
Why this change? It seems to differ than what the comments say above (that we only relay unknown txes whereas this is never relayed txes).

## vtnerd | 2025-02-17T00:11:14+00:00
I _think_ you still need:
```c++
if (context.m_requested_objects.size() != arg.b.txs.size())
{ 
  // error
}
```
along with a check to ensure that every requested `txid` was provided by the peer.
?

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-17T04:02:36+00:00
Oh I see. I think I wrote that comment before changing this part. There's a few valid schemes here with different trade-offs:

1) Be optimistic and relay an empty block to peers, expecting that they will have the necessary transactions in their pool or already confirmed the block
2) Be slightly cautious but mostly optimistic and put the transaction that *you* didn't know about alongside the block. If all nodes adopt this behavior, then in the happy case, it automatically converges on the behavior of scheme 1
3) Be pessimistic and put all transactions in the block

Option 1 is fastest in the best case scenario. Option 3 is fastest in the worst case scenario. Option 2 was somewhere in the middle, and might be the best in an average case. I think I intended for scheme 2 to be the implemented one at first, but I opted out because it leaks information about the structure of the network, and I haven't done the research to know whether or not that's a reasonable privacy risk. At the end of the day, it's an opinionated decision, but they are all "correct"; all will eventually relay the block. Option 3 is decidedly the worst from an average case performance view, and is basically what we had before fluffy blocks. The fundamental assumption behind fluffy blocks in general is that your peer probably knows about the transactions in the block you're about to relay to them by the time you relay the block. All in all, I think default relaying empty blocks (Option 1) will be fine in most cases. It definitely gives miners a disadvantage who mine blocks with transactions that break majority-held relay rules, which can be a good thing or a bad thing depending on your view. 

But yeah, if we stick with Option 1, I will need to amend that comment. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-17T04:30:39+00:00
I'm like 80% sure that `m_requested_objects` is only relevant for the `NOTIFY_REQUEST_GET_OBJECTS`/`NOTIFY_RESPONSE_GET_OBJECTS` commands. When a node is missing txs in a fluffy block, they send a `NOTIFY_REQUEST_FLUFFY_MISSING_TX` command, which is responded to immediately with a new fluffy block containing the missing transactions. But these requests/responses don't touch `m_requested_objects`, which is for persistent, cross-command, state of block hashes. 

## vtnerd | 2025-02-18T01:32:37+00:00
I looked at our existing code + the history of `FLUFFY_BLOCKS`. This code you removed appears to be dead code. However, we may want to consider adding the constraints intended ... another patch? This one has enough already.

## vtnerd | 2025-02-18T01:34:38+00:00
If you didn't know about transaction(s), there's a decent chance your peer didn't either. And I'm not sure the privacy leak argument is very strong - you still have to ask a peer for missing transactions anyway.

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-18T01:47:52+00:00
> If you didn't know about transaction(s), there's a decent chance your peer didn't either.

I agree

> And I'm not sure the privacy leak argument is very strong - you still have to ask a peer for missing transactions anyway.

But that would be a privacy leak for the node that you *don't* control, whereas choosing what you relay leaks something about *your* node to someone else's. As for whether or not this is okay, what about the scenario that a node in the stem phase of transaction propagation (or stem adjacent) mines that transaction and propagates the block before the blackhole period is over? I think the reference code doesn't include such transactions in the block template, but I could be wrong. And if there is an alternative buggy implementation that *does* include such transactions in blocks, couldn't Scheme 2 propagate the result of this bug farther to spy nodes than if reference nodes went within Scheme 1? 

At the end of the day, I'm not certain that this *isn't* a privacy leak, so personally I'd rather error on the side of caution, but I'm definitely open to changing my mind. 





## jeffro256 | 2025-02-18T01:57:13+00:00
This issue is probably tied to https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/9334

## vtnerd | 2025-02-18T18:40:39+00:00
I think this is fine for now. We can always tweak shortly anyway.

## nahuhh | 2025-02-19T02:24:10+00:00
nah has tx a,b,c,d,e
vtnerd has tx a,b,c,d
jeffro has tx a,b,c

nah mines the block (with tx a,b,c,d,e), and sends to vtnerd, who sends to jeffro

How would each scenario play out? Whats the worst case situation for each?

1. do tx d+e get relayed from nah to vtnerd? what does vtnerd send to jeffro?
2. vtnerd leaks to jeffro that he didnt have e? But what about jeffro who is missing d+e?
3. abcde are all sent from nah to vtnerd to jeffro, even if jeffro already has them



## vtnerd | 2025-02-19T04:02:00+00:00
1. vtnerd doesn't send the fluffy block to jeffro until e is received (probably from nah). In current code, vtnerd sends e to jeffro as an additional tx, but in this PR nothing gets sent. The current code leaks to jeffro that vtnerd didn't know about e.
2. Correct (until this patch, which changes that behavior). jeffro has to ask vtnerd about d+e in either scenario.
3. This never happens.

This PR arguably has less leaks. There's also the case where a node pretends to not know about a tx, based on settings and `get_tx` parameters.

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-21T18:02:58+00:00
Yeah this comment has the right idea: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/97c0ce73c4f67d0effc68d35f6b9711ff131ffc5/src/cryptonote_protocol/cryptonote_protocol_handler.inl#L640. But I don't think it actually did anything, since we didn't set the size of `m_requested_objects` anywhere in this flow. If anything, it would just break honest syncing if that connection *also* sent us a fluffy block. Well, maybe not since we return early from handling fluffy blocks if we're in the synchronizing state, so yeah it's probably just dead code that doesn't do anything. 

## Rucknium | 2025-02-24T19:12:37+00:00
I looked into how often `NOTIFY_REQUEST_FLUFFY_MISSING_TX` will appear in node logs when the log level is `net.p2p.msg:INFO`. I re-analyzed some node log data that was collected last year and described on page 20 of version 0.3 of ["March 2024 Suspected Black Marble Flooding Against Monero: Privacy, User Experience, and Countermeasures"](https://github.com/Rucknium/misc-research/blob/main/Monero-Black-Marble-Flood/pdf/monero-black-marble-flood.pdf).

Using logs from nodes that accepted incoming connections, I found that for a given p2p connection, the `NOTIFY_REQUEST_FLUFFY_MISSING_TX` message occurs in 0.7 percent (i.e. less than one percent) of blocks. The message is correlated with time: if one connection emits the message for a particular block, then other connections are more likely to emit the message. This makes sense because the message would tend to be emitted when a transaction was confirmed in a mined block before it could be propagated throughout the network. In that event, multiple nodes would need to emit the message for the same block.

Probably, this event is rare because transactions propagate throughout the network sooner than they are added to mining pools' block template. [When I last measured transaction propagation times two years ago](https://rucknium.me/posts/monero-pool-transaction-delay/), the median time to propagate throughout the network was two seconds during the Dandelion++ fluff phase. On the other hand, [most mining pools add new transactions to their block templates once every 10-30 seconds](https://rucknium.me/posts/monero-transactions-60-seconds-faster/).

Those were the statistics under current network conditions. If transaction volume is so high that the txpool becomes congested, we would probably expect that the message is emitted even less frequently. The default behavior of `monerod`'s block template construction is to first order the transactions by fee (there are 4 standard tiers) and then order them by first-seen. Therefore, conditional on fee (which is usually set automatically to the same tier for everyone), transactions are first-in/first-out. The transactions that have been broadcasted first and have been waiting a while are the transactions that would be confirmed in the next block, so it is unlikely that a node would be missing them.

## j-berman | 2025-02-24T19:17:24+00:00
Since it's now expected some txs will be missing sometimes at this point (e.g. we receive an empty fluffy block and don't have all its txs), this `MERROR_VER` is not actually an error, rather info that the daemon is expected to sometimes run into. 

## j-berman | 2025-02-24T19:40:06+00:00
Nit: highlighting this point from DM: I think we should move this section (checking if the daemon has all txs from the block) to right after the PoW check. Since it's now expected the node will sometimes not have all txs in its pool at this point nor the txs included as fluffy txs (and will need to re-request missing fluffy txs), then the node will sometimes waste cycles doing verification for some txs twice.

I'm ok with pushing this change to a future PR, but perhaps a TODO comment would be good for this PR.

## j-berman | 2025-02-24T19:50:52+00:00
Nit: we can theoretically not have a tx in the pool when `handle_single_incoming_block` executes, then once it returns, receive a tx from another connection, then get to this point and already have the tx. Thus `need_tx_indices` can end up empty.

It's not an issue because `handle_request_fluffy_missing_tx` will still return a fluffy block even for an empty request for txs.

Might be cleaner to return the missing txs in `handle_single_incoming_block` instead. Not a blocker for this PR.

## j-berman | 2025-02-24T20:47:54+00:00
Nit: highlighting the PR now removes this `pause_mine` and `resume_mine` flow. The downside to removing this is potentially wasted electricity solo mining a stale block template while the node is verifying a correct new block. The upside to removing it is that it removes a potential window to get a node to temporarily pause mining. Personally I think the former wins out, as a node that attempts the latter will have their connection dropped.

Not necessary for approval imo.

## j-berman | 2025-02-25T02:32:56+00:00
Nit: `m_core.get_transactions` could be replaced by `m_core.get_blockchain_storage().have_tx(tx_hash)` here.

## j-berman | 2025-02-25T03:15:24+00:00
The one necessary thing this flow seems to be missing compared to the prior is that it doesn't lock `m_incoming_tx_lock`

## j-berman | 2025-02-25T03:42:46+00:00
Nit: for a future PR, I would move this function into `tx_verification_utils`. Makes sense not to do it here to keep the diff smaller.

## j-berman | 2025-02-25T04:02:59+00:00
Nit: I'm not seeing how to trigger this if statement on re-review. Looks like the pool supplement is only used once and then discarded in all cases. Am I missing something there?

Doesn't look like an issue to me being here, just a little confusing

## j-berman | 2025-02-25T04:24:24+00:00
Nit: I think this section in this PR is good, and am for speeding it up in the general case in a future PR.

Behavior of the current code (excluding this PR):

For txs that **are** ready to go, it currently re-calls `check_tx_inputs` every time. There is no circumstance where it will short-circuit return true txs that should be ready to go.

For txs that are **not** ready to go, which should be an edge case minority of txs passed into this function, it makes an [incorrect attempt](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9135#discussion_r1538682499) at short-circuiting false. I say this is an edge case minority of txs because it would be a tx that was valid at one time that later became invalid, which should be rare (a reorg deep enough it would invalidate the ring signature, or unlock time reverts to locked).

> Your change here will force a `check_tx_inputs` check every new block, instead of only after a reorg.

I agree that the check done in this PR could correctly short-circuit false in more circumstances, however, considering this should be a rare edge case, it's reasonable to argue this would be unnecessary error-prone complexity for this function. As such I'm good with this PR's approach as is.

I think it's also worth noting that we shouldn't have to run `check_tx_inputs` for txs that at one point were ready to go prior, so long as they were deemed ready to go on the same chain and don't reference any outputs with time-based unlock times. Aka there is a circumstance where we can short-circuit **true** that I think would significantly benefit this function in the general case. Considering this function impacts mining (see #8381), I think it's probably worth pursuing such a change in a future PR. It would be easiest to do with FCMP++ because there would be no need to deal with unlock time complexity.

## j-berman | 2025-02-25T23:49:16+00:00
Nit: `!tvc.m_verifivation_failed` looks unnecessary here since if it was true, then we would have entered the if above and returned false

## j-berman | 2025-02-26T00:17:24+00:00
Looks like we should `notify_txpool_event` each newly added tx in this for loop as well.

Sequence of events:
1) Receive new fluffy tx as arg.
2) Still missing some txs in the fluffy block.
3) We end up in this loop, adding the new fluffy txs to the pool.

The fluffy txs from 3 will never get pub'd.

It looks like the only circumstance where we might receive *some* fluffy txs in a fluffy block but are still missing txs is from a node running different code. But I figure we'd want to pub txs in that case anyway as these would be newly valid txs entering the pool.

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-26T07:56:21+00:00
Hmmm... it should be an `MERROR_VER` when we call it during chain syncing, but not on new block notifications. Perhaps we pass a flag ? Or let the handlers in `core::handle_incoming_block` log the error depending on the context? If that's the case, then `handle_block_to_main_chain` needs to somehow return the missing TXIDs if we care to make the log statement expressive. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-26T08:08:57+00:00
> It's not an issue because handle_request_fluffy_missing_tx will still return a fluffy block even for an empty request for txs.

This might be the "better" option in the sense that this automatically makes ourselves re-encounter the fluffy block, even if another connection doesn't pass it to us in the future. 

A more "optimal" solution would be caching blocks which pass PoW verification but are missing txs, and then triggering a re-verify of these blocks when the mempool is updated.

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-26T08:10:28+00:00
How about this?: we log it as `MERROR_VER` if the pool supplement size is that same as the number of transactioon hashes for that block. This is what happens during chain syncing, and if this were to happen to a fluffy block, then it would actually be an error too. 

## j-berman | 2025-02-26T08:15:58+00:00
That sounds like a good solution to me

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-26T08:21:52+00:00
Will do

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-26T21:21:44+00:00
Agreed, yeah was just trying to minimize the diff as it's already huge. This pure function is ripe for relocation afterwards, though. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-27T05:32:19+00:00
Fluffy txs aren't added to the mempool on block verification failure, which means the ZMQ notification happens later: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/fb3adce341518e06d1862657109d16976923a88b/src/cryptonote_core/blockchain.cpp#L4238. However, maybe this shouldn't be the behavior. Perhaps we *do* add them to the mempool and perform a ZMQ notify right here? 

## j-berman | 2025-02-27T06:41:46+00:00
Whoops, that was a miss on my part. I actually prefer it as is, since we don't expect nodes to include some fluffy txs while missing others. Adding the fluffy txs to the pool seems like unnecessary optimization.

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-27T07:01:50+00:00
Done in latest commit

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-27T07:02:07+00:00
Added comment in latest commit

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-27T07:02:32+00:00
Done in latest commit

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-27T07:04:31+00:00
Yes it could, but personally don't like that this would be the first time in the cryptonote protocol handler that the blockchain storage is exposed. We could add a `core` endpoint though .. 

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-27T07:04:49+00:00
Done in latest commit

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-27T07:05:31+00:00
Nope not missing anything AFAIK, could be worth removing 

## jeffro256 | 2025-02-27T07:05:44+00:00
Done in latest commit

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2024-01-24T23:08:21+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-03-10T16:16:29+00:00
