---
title: '       Modifications to enable Offline Signing in monero-gui and possible...'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9492
author: DiosDelRayo
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- wallet
created_at: '2024-09-27T07:45:11+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-02-09T00:59:44+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
… other projects via UR or other mediums of exchange.

This PR is part of the [CCS Monero Signer Resurrection](https://ccs.getmonero.org/proposals/%20MoneroSignerResurrection.html) (milestone 4). The modifications are needed to get the blobs of the offline signing data exchange without writing and reading from disk. To merge UR additions to [monero-gui](https://github.com/monero-project/monero-gui/), this needs to be merged first.

       Added the following signatures in the mention files:

       wallet/wallet2.h
       +    std::string export_key_images_string(bool all = false) const;
       +    uint64_t import_key_images_string(const std::string &data, uint64_t &spent, uint64_t &unspent);
       M    bool wallet2::export_key_images(const std::string &filename, bool all) const

       wallet/api/pending_transaction.h
       +    std::string commit_string() override;

       wallet/api/unsigned_transaction.h
       +    std::string signAsString() override;

       wallet/api/wallet.h:
       +    bool submitTransactionFromString(const std::string &fileName) override;
       +    virtual UnsignedTransaction * loadUnsignedTxFromString(const std::string &unsigned_filename) override;
       +    std::string exportKeyImagesAsString(bool all = false) override;
       +    bool importKeyImagesFromString(const std::string &data) override;
       +    std::string exportOutputsAsString(bool all = false) override;
       +    bool importOutputsFromString(const std::string &data) override;

       wallet/api/wallet2_api.h
       +    virtual std::string commit_string() = 0;
       +    virtual std::string signAsString() = 0;
       +    virtual UnsignedTransaction * loadUnsignedTxFromString(const std::string &unsigned_filename) = 0;
       +    virtual bool submitTransactionFromString(const std::string &fileName) = 0;
       +    virtual bool importKeyImagesFromString(const std::string &data) = 0;
       +    virtual std::string exportOutputsAsString(bool all = false) = 0;
       +    virtual bool importOutputsFromString(const std::string &data) = 0;
       +    uint64_t import_key_images_string(const std::string &data, uint64_t &spent, uint64_t &unspent);

       And the implementations in:

       wallet/wallet2.cpp
       wallet/api/pending_transaction.cpp
       wallet/api/unsigned_transaction.cpp
       wallet/api/wallet.cpp

       The method `bool wallet2::export_key_images(const std::string &filename, bool all) const` is modified to
       use `std::string export_key_images_string(bool all = false) const;` to get the string to write to the file.
       IMO that would be the perfect way to do it everywhere, but in the other methods it would require more modifications, so the other I duplicated and removed the part writing to the file and return instead a std::string, or
       use a std::string for the actual payload instead of a file path.

       One thing to mention is I remove in one or two log messages the filename, and the other is in `export_key_images` probably(almost sure) is now the performance messed up.

       This modifications was done to get all the necessary data for offline signing via UR or any other channel not
       using files as medium. IMO it had been better to not implement the filehandling direct in wallet2 or in the wallet api but rather in monero-wallet-cli and monero-gui itself, but it is like it is.

# Discussion History
## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-09T20:38:51+00:00
Other methods in this file (and in the wallet API in general) are written in _camelCase_ instead of _snake_case_.
And I would suggest a name closer to the wallet2 origin like `dumpTxToStr()`.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-09T20:39:18+00:00
Seems these `catch`s were copied from the `commit()` method, but are mostly not needed here.
Only `tools::error::wallet_internal_error` can get thrown in `get_construction_data_with_decrypted_short_payment_id()` (which gets called in `m_wallet.m_wallet->dump_tx_to_str(m_pending_tx);`), afaict without looking too deep.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-09T20:39:24+00:00
Don't think this is needed.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-09T20:40:21+00:00
Reminds me of this issue: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/9461

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-09T20:41:38+00:00
From how I understand things at this time, I fully support to add this function.

For those who like to read, here is a snippet from the notes I took while working on the wallet API:
>I am wondering, for the `wallet2::export_key_images()` ([src](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L13295-L13346)) that's used by the wallet-rpc ([here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet_rpc_server.cpp#L3037)), afaiui it sends the key images and signatures in clear text, wouldn't it be safer to change it, so it returns a string of the encrypted key images and signatures?
If my concern is valid, I would not add the `export_key_images()` function mentioned above to the API, but propose to add another `std::string export_key_images(bool all)` in wallet2 and add that to the API instead, it would return an encrypted string of key images and signatures as created [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/blob/a1dc85c5373a30f14aaf7dcfdd95f5a7375d3623/src/wallet/wallet2.cpp#L13273-L13291) (`magic + ciphertext`).
That should be safer to use for the wallet-rpc compared to what it's using now and I assume it would be the most versatile for every client using the wallet API.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-14T13:16:48+00:00
This should be `setStatusError()`.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-14T13:16:58+00:00
Nitpick: In general there are some places where you use 2 space indent and others with 4 space indent, both are already present in the API, so the mix may be forgivable. Though to attempt to unify the API I'd use 4 spaces, but don't want to force my opinion on you, but imo even more important, no matter what you choose, don't mix these two in the same function as done here.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-14T13:17:37+00:00
Another general style nitpick: Sometimes you use opening bracket on same line and sometimes on new line, see examples below if it's unclear what I mean. Again both are already present in the API so they're not "wrong", but personally I prefer to not add more chaos and stay consistent within a PR, so I'd use the style from example 2, but again no force.
Example 1 (bracket on same line)
```
something {
}
```
Example 2 (bracket on new line)
```
something
{
}
```

Note: here we have both styles in the same function.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-14T13:18:29+00:00
Parameter name `filename` should be `data`

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-14T13:18:49+00:00
Keyword `virtual` should be used in the interface file `wallet2_api.h` only. (I know this is violated already in several places in the current API.)

And parameter name `unsigned_filename` should be `data`.

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-14T13:18:56+00:00
Nitpick: `@brief sign` should match the function name like: `@brief signAsString()`

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-14T13:19:02+00:00
Same: Parameter name `data`

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-10-14T13:19:06+00:00
Same: Parameter name `data`

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-12-02T19:50:56+00:00
```suggestion
    setStatusError(tr("Failed to load transaction from string"));
```

## SNeedlewoods | 2024-12-02T19:51:00+00:00
```suggestion
    UnsignedTransaction * loadUnsignedTxFromString(const std::string &data) override;
```

# Action History
- Created by: DiosDelRayo | 2024-09-27T07:45:11+00:00
