---
title: 'wallet2: use IO threadpool for getblocks.bin network request'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9936
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels:
- enhancement
- pending review
- wallet
created_at: '2025-05-23T18:32:04+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-05-28T18:32:38+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
EDIT: I made a mistake and don't believe this PR should yield a significant improvement to the scanner. @plowsof is still observing a modest speed-bump with this code and I'm not certain what part of the code may be sped up. @nahuhh and @MrCyjaneK are reporting regressions, which I'm also not certain why. I can leave this PR open until the PR is more fully investigated.

Credit to @jeffro256 for opening #9917, which led me to realize this very simple change for potentially faster scanning with wallet2.

This PR uses a distinct threadpool for fetching blocks from the daemon.

EDIT: My original PR description was incorrect. I misread the threadpool waiter implementation and what I originally described is not actually happening. A distinct instantiated waiter will not wait on all tasks in the threadpool to complete upon calling `wait()`, it will wait for the tasks tied to the waiter to complete.

However, a single threadpool instance has a single queue. Which means all tasks submitted to the compute threadpool instance share the same queue. The network request gets queued into the compute threadpool, and should be the first task to execute because it should be the first task submitted. Then the expensive scanning tasks get submitted to the threadpool and can also begin executing immediately on a multithreaded device. Their respective waiters should only wait for their tasks to complete, not for the threadpool's queue to clear i.e. the local scanning task waiters won't wait on the network request to complete. @jeffro256's #9917 shows it's possible for starvation to occur with the current threadpool impl, however, wallet2's design does not run up against that case AFAICT.

# Discussion History
## jeffro256 | 2025-05-24T15:06:27+00:00
Perhaps these can be renamed to something less generic that points to its usage, like `io_tpool` and `pull_parse_waiter` or something of that nature. The generic naming already present here probably contributed to the original mistake of using the compute threadpool versus the I/O threadpool.

## jeffro256 | 2025-05-24T15:06:39+00:00
Good find!

## j-berman | 2025-05-25T17:39:28+00:00
I thought it was cool that it was only a one-line change, but agree a better name here is warranted :)

Done in latest

# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2025-05-23T18:32:04+00:00
