---
title: Coveralls patch
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/992
author: ranok
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2016-08-26T20:08:30+00:00'
updated_at: '2016-08-28T20:44:46+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2016-08-28T20:44:45+00:00'
merged_at: '2016-08-28T20:44:45+00:00'
---

# Original Description
This patch (once merged and someone with repo access to the monero-project's bitmonero has created a free coveralls.io page for the repo) will provide the badge on the readme that shows the test coverage and will automatically recompute per push to measure improvements/degradation. The biggest challenge is the time limit enforced by Travis-CI (50min) that prevents core_tests from being finished, so if it's being run in Travis, those tests are skipped. I have also tidied up the travis YAML into using a build matrix, one build for testing, one for g++ and one for clang.


# Discussion History
## moneromooo-monero | 2016-08-26T20:54:13+00:00
That looks like there should be a separate "profile" target, in addition to release and debug


## moneromooo-monero | 2016-08-26T20:55:29+00:00
Do these comments get parsed ? I see no other distinction for build types... Just a question, no chnage request


## radfish | 2016-08-26T23:02:15+00:00
The '-' does it, doesn't it? List element of the 'matrix' list. (Just guessing).


## radfish | 2016-08-26T23:06:17+00:00
Is this special-case necessary, given the later special-case around add_custom_target? If not, I would remove it, to minimize the special-cases and also to leave open the option to manually invoke the target to build this test (the extra time for cmake to parse that subdir is tiny).


## radfish | 2016-08-26T23:08:27+00:00
Why disable tests here? Isn't this exactly the wonderful benefit of all your work? The badge will show that the test is failing and will put a little extra pressure towards fixing the root cause.
PS. Also, same comment applies as above about hiding subdir from cmake.


## radfish | 2016-08-26T23:16:09+00:00
There is logic elsewhere that appends -Wall to *FLAGS, see `WARNINGS` var. Could we avoid duplication? If somehow -Wall doesn't end up where you want it, let's investigate why.

Agreed on either a separating profiling. How about add a cmake option (with `option()`) for this and set it to false by default and set it to true in a new 'profile' target in top-level makefile?


## ranok | 2016-08-27T12:20:56+00:00
All the documentation I've seen put the coveralls reporting in the after_success step which is not reached if any tests fail. I will experiment and see if there are any issues reporting coverage for a failing test suite.


## ranok | 2016-08-27T12:27:10+00:00
@moneromooo-monero You are right, the comments in the travis config are just to clarify what each of the build tasks are doing


## moneromooo-monero | 2016-08-28T09:51:58+00:00
Nevermind, I was expecting some kind of header for each, but they're just unnamed it seems. Ignore what I said :)


# Action History
- Created by: ranok | 2016-08-26T20:08:30+00:00
- Merged at: 2016-08-28T20:44:45+00:00
