---
title: Fix embargo timeout in dandelion++
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9295
author: vtnerd
assignees: []
labels:
- pending review
- important
- networking
created_at: '2024-04-20T00:34:30+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-12-14T18:16:23+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
# Summary

@Boog900 pointed out that the embargo duration in Dandelion++ was incorrect - it was using poisson distribution instead of exponential distribution. I don't recall why I used poisson distribution, other than it takes an "average" parameter, which I took to mean the average embargo timeout. This is not the same distribution as meant in the Dandelion++ paper.

The primary difference is that the average embargo timeout will drop from ~39s to ~7s. There shouldn't be any loss in privacy as a result of this, because the propagation time to 10 nodes is roughly 1.75s.

Additionally @Boog900 discovered that the paper stated `log` but almost certainly meant `ln` (which helps bring down the average fluff time too).

# Fluff probability
Is once again 10%, which should result in longer stem phases. Since the distribution is now much shorter for the embargo timeout, this shouldn't result in longer flood times.

# Fallout

I'm not aware of any fingerprinting that can be done on the existing implementation. The randomized duration should still make it difficult to determine which node in the stem-set fluffed first. Perhaps @Boog900 can share some thoughts on this topic.

# Fluff Timers
I reduced the average poisson distribution for fluff delay from 5s to 1s. This is an arbitrary change, but was made due to the new reality of much shorter embargo timeouts. @Boog900 thoughts on this portion of the code? Dandelion++ doesn't really specify a randomized flush interval for fluff mode, this comes from inspecting the Bitcoin code.

# Poisson Distribution

Poisson is still being used in a few places, but I am not aware of any issues right now. I will dig deeper to see if these need changing:
  * The delay when "forwarding" from i2p/tor to p2p/clearnet is using a poisson distribution
  * The dandelion++/noise epoch has a minimum time, with a randomized poisson distribution added
  * The fluff timers have use a poisson distribution for flushing

I'm not aware of these timers violating the Dandelion++ paper (again read above about fluff timers).

# Future
I expect some feedback from @Boog900 and possibly others as to the additional changes that need to be made.

# Discussion History
## Boog900 | 2024-04-20T15:41:28+00:00
The average time depends on where in the stem the black hole happened, 7.5s assumes the black hole happens after the 10th node 

## Boog900 | 2024-04-20T15:56:31+00:00
I don't think this is correct, it means the tx has a 90% probability of reaching k hops before _one of the nodes_ timer fires not 90% probability of the last one firing 

## vtnerd | 2024-04-21T22:53:43+00:00
Fixed.

## vtnerd | 2024-04-21T22:53:51+00:00
Fixed.

# Action History
- Created by: vtnerd | 2024-04-20T00:34:30+00:00
