---
title: Convert CRLF to LF.
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9849
author: sorenstoutner
assignees: []
labels: []
created_at: '2025-03-18T05:04:51+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-03-20T18:46:48+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: closed
closed_at: '2025-03-20T18:45:48+00:00'
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
I am in the process of finalizing the Feather Wallet Debian package.  As part of that process, Debian uses a Git based system that imports the upstream tarball and its contents into various branches of a Git repository.  During one step, the contents of the original tarball are checked against the contents of the unpacked tarball contained in another.  In the case of Feather Wallet this check fails because some of the files in the original tarball have CRLF line endings, which were automatically converted to LF line endings in the unpacked branch.

CRLF line endings are the default on Windows and LF line endings are the default on Linux.  Git repositories typically store all their text files with LF line endings and these are automatically converted back and forth to CRLF for Windows users, although this behavior can be changed if there is a good reason for doing so.  In the case of Monero, because only a few files are CRLF, my guess is that is unintentional and it wouldn't cause any problems if they were converted to LF, which is what this pull request does.  However, there is a small chance that changing the mnemonics files to LF might cause some incompatibility.  Does your test suite currently check that the mnemonics files can be parsed correctly?

I have several ways of working around this issue in the Debian packaging, and if there is an important reason for these files to be CRLF I can do so.  But if not, it would be helpful if the entire project used LF for text files.

# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: sorenstoutner | 2025-03-18T05:04:51+00:00
- Closed at: 2025-03-20T18:45:48+00:00
