---
title: 'wallet2: remove refresh() from scan_tx'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9389
author: j-berman
assignees: []
labels:
- important
- wallet
created_at: '2024-06-29T18:02:25+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-01-23T05:35:58+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-01-18T02:34:31+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-01-18T02:34:31+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Fixes #9354

### The problem

In #8566, I introduced a call to `refresh()` inside `scan_tx` so that when `scan_tx` executes to completion, wallet data would reflect the latest chain state (e.g. the number of confirmations on the tx/tx's locked status would be up to date). I also introduced a new variable `m_skip_to_height` to skip the wallet's refresh height to the tx's height if it hasn't synced to that height yet. The logic for `m_skip_to_height` mirrors the logic when a user includes a restore height when restoring the wallet.

When refresh "skips" to `m_skip_to_height` (or a user restores a wallet at a provided restore height), the wallet downloads every block hash from the chain even from before `m_skip_to_height` (or provided restore height),  which is (suspiciously) slow.

Thus, when restoring a wallet and then calling `scan_tx` with a remote daemon, `scan_tx` is slow to complete.

### The solution

This PR includes a simple fix to remove the call to `refresh()` inside `scan_tx`.

The other additional changes are there to ensure when `scan_tx` is called twice when the wallet is not yet synced to the height of txs scanned, those txs are reprocessed correctly (necessary change for this PR because `scan_tx` doesn't call `refresh()` anymore).

Warning: when calling `scan_tx` when the wallet is not synced, the num confirmation data and locked status on scanned txs will not reflect the latest chain state with this change. A wallet must call `refresh` *after* `scan_tx` to get the latest state. Pinging @woodser on this since this reverts to behavior noted [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8566#issuecomment-1255299200).

### Misc. comment

@woodser suggested [here](https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/8566#issuecomment-1255299200) to use the daemon's state to calculate things like num confirmations/locked status on a wallet's outputs, rather than use the wallet's latest sync state.

There are quite a few places where the wallet currently uses wallet state instead of daemon state. So it's a bit involved to decide exactly where daemon state should be used that won't break current wallet UX.

I'm proposing this PR as a simple fix for #9354 to improve current behavior.

# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: j-berman | 2024-06-29T18:02:25+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-01-18T02:34:31+00:00
