---
title: 'CoC: do not allow Maintainers to tag releases, unless core is not available
  within a reasonable time'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9798
author: tobtoht
assignees: []
labels:
- documentation
created_at: '2025-02-14T11:18:18+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-02-16T14:13:45+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: open
closed_at: null
merged_at: null
---

# Original Description
The intent of this rule is to set the expectation that releases are tagged by a member of the Monero Core Team unless there are extraordinary circumstances which warrant expedited tagging.

Tagging initiates the [verified reproduction](https://github.com/monero-project/gitian.sigs?tab=readme-ov-file#gitian-assertions-and-signatures) process, which requires multiple independent builds from contributors. A release is not finalized until hashes are signed by a member of the core team.

What constitutes '[reasonable time](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reasonable_time)' should be discussed with other maintainers and developers when such circumstances arise. Misjudgment or abuse can obviously result in the removal of write privileges at the discretion of the core team.

For a release that fixes or mitigates an actively exploited Denial of Service attack against the network, a few days to a week would seem like a reasonable time (depending on severity). For a critical problem that affects the entire network (e.g. a chain halt) this might be on the order of hours.

I'm open to suggestions on how to word this rule better. If there is opposition to allowing maintainers to tag a release under any circumstances, I'm fine with changing this to "Maintainers MUST NOT tag releases unless they are also Administrators".

Drafted for now awaiting initial feedback.

# Discussion History
# Action History
- Created by: tobtoht | 2025-02-14T11:18:18+00:00
