---
title: 'tests: Improve p2p tx propagation functional test'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9762
author: iamamyth
assignees: []
labels:
- tests
created_at: '2025-02-01T03:24:18+00:00'
updated_at: '2025-02-14T04:02:14+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2025-02-14T04:02:14+00:00'
merged_at: '2025-02-14T04:02:14+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Reduce the likelihood of false positive failures in the p2p transaction propagation functional test by waiting up to a maximum timeout for a transaction to propagate, rather than using a fixed timeout, to reflect the random delay of Dandelion++ transaction propagation. This strategy also speeds test execution in cases where propagation occurs faster than the previously expected fixed delay.

# Discussion History
## iamamyth | 2025-02-02T00:49:54+00:00
@vtnerd Do you know the expected maximum propagation delay in this scenario, based on the D++ paper? That value would act as an approximate lower bound for the timeout, which could then be further padded to reflect physical realities of data transmission and processing.

## vtnerd | 2025-02-02T04:39:32+00:00
The delay should usually trigger the inbound fluff delay where it's using a poisson distribution, simply mimicking what Bitcoin was doing for the same situation. 95% of the values are in the 3-7.3 second range. A delay of 16 is basically nearly impossibl, so this should be acceptable.

As an explanation of why not exponential here - one of the nodes will have no outbound peers. I don't recall the paper stating how to handle the situation, so I decided to make it immediately fluff, as it would be an edge case. A fluff does randomized poisson delays, similar to what Bitcoin was doing at the time. I don't recall the d++ specifying how to handle fluff precisely either, maybe I need to revisit that paper.

## iamamyth | 2025-02-11T22:34:33+00:00
@vtnerd Per discussion in https://github.com/monero-project/monero/issues/9755, it might help to make this upper bound a bit more strict. As a 0% failure probability would be impossible for any test (CPUs can fail, etc), I'd aim for something around 1 in 1 million. How much could I reduce the timeout and achieve that bound?

## iamamyth | 2025-02-12T02:30:34+00:00
Unless I've done the math horribly wrong, it looks like 13s should yield a failure probability of roughly 1 in a billion (I decided a million was too low); I've updated the test timeout accordingly.

# Action History
- Created by: iamamyth | 2025-02-01T03:24:18+00:00
- Merged at: 2025-02-14T04:02:14+00:00
