---
title: 'serialization: fix infinite loops and clean up dispatching'
source_url: https://github.com/monero-project/monero/pull/9069
author: jeffro256
assignees: []
labels:
- enhancement
created_at: '2023-11-17T08:54:35+00:00'
updated_at: '2024-01-19T19:26:18+00:00'
type: pull_request
status: merged
closed_at: '2024-01-18T23:00:49+00:00'
merged_at: '2024-01-18T23:00:49+00:00'
---

# Original Description
Resolves #8687

Before, when you tried to serialize a type which 1) was missing its `do_serialize` free function  and 2) was marked with `is_basic_type<T>`, we would end up calling `do_serialize<Archive, T>(Archive&,T&)`, which called `serializer<Archive, T>::serialize(Archive&, T&)`, which called `serializer<Archive, T>::serialize(Archive&, T&, boost::false_type, boost::false_type, boost::true_type)`, which called `do_serialize<Archive, T>(Archive&,T&)`, so on and so forth.

Now, instead of complicating dispatch by inserting a struct to make function expression calls name-dependent, we just use ADL and function overloading. 

# Discussion History
## vtnerd | 2023-11-17T17:40:31+00:00
You shouldn't need the extra `true` here. Or you need to actually `return true` here.

## vtnerd | 2023-11-17T17:50:41+00:00
This function in the global namespace will disable ADL wherever this header is included (and instead unqualified lookup is used).

I don't have any recommendations here, other than it appears ADL isn't needed (yet) for this serialization code.

## jeffro256 | 2023-11-18T09:53:24+00:00
I don't believe so. From https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/adl:

> First, the argument-dependent lookup is not considered if the lookup set produced by usual [unqualified lookup](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/lookup) contains any of the following:
> 1) a declaration of a class member.
> 2) a declaration of a function at block scope (that's not a [using-declaration](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/namespace#Using-declarations)).
> 3) any declaration that is not a function or a function template (e.g. a function object or another variable whose name conflicts with the name of the function that's being looked up).

See the latest push for an unit test using ADL here. Either way though, yeah, it hasn't been needed yet

## jeffro256 | 2023-11-18T09:58:42+00:00
I used the extra `true` here to force the function to return a `bool`. If the member function `member_do_serialize` returns a type that is not contextually convertible to a `bool`, then you will get an immediate compiler error. 

## jeffro256 | 2023-11-18T10:06:03+00:00
And the compiler error will be along the lines of "result of v.member_do_serialize cannot be converted to bool" instead of "void function do_serialize returns bool", which might make it a tad easier to debug. 

## vtnerd | 2023-11-18T16:42:54+00:00
I misunderstood "block scope" to mean namespace/global scope when previously looking up the definition. I also recall testing this to verify, but I don't remember what happened now. I must've used a class member in the test. Oops.

## vtnerd | 2023-11-18T16:46:06+00:00
I would just make this pass-through to whatever `member_do_serialize` is doing, because this is just a pass-through function. The caller will handle whether it cares about the result, whether it's converted to bool in an if-statement, etc.

OTOH, this works, so whatever.

## vtnerd | 2023-11-18T17:35:55+00:00
I think this is what I was [testing before](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/74332608/c-template-two-phase-look-up-doesnt-seem-to-work-for-my-code). It's subtle when ADL is used, and this affects what functions are considered as candidate functions.

# Action History
- Created by: jeffro256 | 2023-11-17T08:54:35+00:00
- Merged at: 2024-01-18T23:00:49+00:00
